<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: Draft of motion for adoption by general (unanimous) consent -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Irfg, [nggurj [D EEW&#45;UDSO&#45;GY" <[nggurj.D.IrfgNvf.furyy.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2001 06:00:34 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E42703AE17BA@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01935.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: Draft of motion for adoption by general (unanimous) consent</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg01945.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01936.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd50.html#01935">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01936.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01934.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail52.html#01935">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: Draft of motion for adoption by general (unanimous) consent</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;'Standard-Upper-Ontology '&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: Draft of motion for adoption by general (unanimous) consent</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Wed, 28 Mar 2001 12:18:58 +0200</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Dear Bob,
 
I think this is an excellent start. If I start to think about the next set
of practicalities I come
up with things like:
 
1. A publicly available issues list (and actions taken)
2. How we manage new versions that have addressed some issues and perhaps
carried 
    forward others
 
But I think these are mostly practical issues and can be deferred. In
principle we should 
have a "Methods" subgroup to look at these process and practical issues.
Regards 
      Matthew
===============================================================
Matthew West                     <A  HREF="http://www.matthew-west.org.uk/">http://www.matthew-west.org.uk/</A>
&lt;<A  HREF="http://www.matthew-west.org.uk/">http://www.matthew-west.org.uk/</A>&gt; 

Principal Consultant                   Shell Visiting Professor
Operations &amp; Asset Management            The Keyworth Institute
Shell Services International            The University of Leeds
<A  HREF="http://www.shellservices.com/">http://www.shellservices.com/</A> &lt;<A  HREF="http://www.shellservices.com/">http://www.shellservices.com/</A>&gt;
<A  HREF="http://www.keyworth.leeds.ac.uk/">http://www.keyworth.leeds.ac.uk/</A> &lt;<A  HREF="http://www.keyworth.leeds.ac.uk/">http://www.keyworth.leeds.ac.uk/</A>&gt; 

H3229, Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA, UK.
Tel: +44 207 934 4490 Fax: 7929 Mobile: +44 7796 336538
=============================================================== 
 

-----Original Message-----
From: Robert Grayson Spillers [<A  HREF="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">mailto:skydog@pacbell.net</A>]
Sent: 28 March 2001 03:18
To: 'Standard-Upper-Ontology '
Subject: SUO: Draft of motion for adoption by general (unanimous) consent


Draft of motion for adoption by general (unanimous) consent 

Motion:  Request for adoption by general (unanimous) consent. 


Resolved: Any voting member of the IEEE SUO Working Group may post a
document to the SUO web page as an "Expert contribution1".  The member who
posts a document is presumptively the technical editor2 of the document and
by posting agrees to perform these duties or alternatively name another
member (either voting or candidate member3) who agrees to perform the duties
of technical editor.  No vote will be required to post a document or name an
editor. 


The statement  "All documents posted are deemed to have equal status and no
document has any preferred position over any other document." will precede
the list of documents.  No separate category of documents may be created
without an explicit vote of the members. 
  


1   This is a name suggested by John Sowa and I think it is an appropriate
one.  It seems the IEEE SUO web page (suo.ieee.org) was changed today
(3/27/01) to eliminate the heading "Document being worked on by this Working
Group" - the heading where the Teknowledge Merged Ontology was previously
listed.  The Teknowledge Merged Ontology is now listed (along with David
Whitten's structural ontology) under "Candidate Content to be merged into a
standard".  This is probably not a good choice as there may be submissions
by members who do not wish their contribution to be merged with other
material. The material submitted might not be content (in the sense of
nodes, relations, axioms, etc.) but architecture, structural considerations,
tutorial materials, tools, etc.    My main concern is not the name; it is
that there be no difference in status of any documents that are or will be
listed. 


2  I think it would be appropriate to list the duties of a technical editor
in a footnote to the motion.  Some obvious duties occur to me (maintaining a
current version, logging issues, facilitating the resolution of issues
etc.), but I would appreciate suggestions. 


3  I have tried to accommodate John Sowa's (and others) suggestions about
the types of membership and their privileges regarding document submissions.
The motion requires a voting member to submit a document, either a voting
member or a candidate member may serve as editor and non-members may apply
and wait for membership or  alternatively persuade a voting member to make
the submission.  This might eliminate the contribution as editor of people
who are subscribers to the list, but do not desire voting privileges.  I can
accept either form, but invite comments if anyone feels strongly either way.



4  Regarding filters to screen out "crank" submissions, I have adopted
Matthew's suggestions.  Since one has to be a voting member for their
submission to merit any consideration this would seem to serve as an
effective screen for "crank" submissions.  It is hard to see how any real
harm could result from a submission that is silly, out of the scope of the
group, etc.  If the submission's language is obscene, contains spam or is
otherwise offensive a simple vote on whether or not it should be removed is
appropriate and can be done quickly.  I accept Matthew's view that
considering the limited membership that may submit, it is better to deal
with exceptions than to apply a review process to all documents.  (Of
course, most of the world would consider all of the members of this group as
cranks ;-) 


I have tried to accommodate the suggestions that have been made.  If I have
omitted some or you think of others please comment (particularly on the
duties of a technical editor).  I will wait a few days for other comments
(not everyone reads the list every day).  If there are none, I will move for
adoption by general consent. 


Thanks for your advice and counsel. 


Bob 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01936.html">SUO: RE: Draft of motion for adoption by general (unanimous) consent</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01934.html">RE: SUO: RE: KIF syntax and semantics and a basic ontology</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01945.html">SUO: Re: Semes To Be The Truth</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01936.html">SUO: RE: Draft of motion for adoption by general (unanimous) consent</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail52.html#01935"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd50.html#01935"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
