<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Irfg, [nggurj [D EEW&#45;UDSO&#45;GY" <[nggurj.D.IrfgNvf.furyy.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Thu, 15 Feb 2001 15:38:52 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E4270730E71B@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01068.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg01104.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01074.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd68.html#01068">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01067.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01066.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail69.html#01068">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;,       &quot;'Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)'&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Thu, 15 Feb 2001 21:20:05 +0100</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Dear James,

&gt; 
&gt; Chris,
&gt; 
&gt; 	You asked:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;You say:
&gt; &gt;"     Documents under development by this working group:
&gt; &gt;1. Merged Ontology &lt;link address&gt;"
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;I presume that this means we are going to have a number of documents
&gt; &gt;(describing ontologies) under development. Is this right?
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;If so could you clarify how we should go about getting other 
&gt; documents into
&gt; &gt;this category (or maybe another category - being considered 
&gt; for input).
&gt; 
&gt; This category would be for documents this group is officially 
&gt; working on,
&gt; which means they should be within the Scope of this group.  
&gt; In our current
&gt; early stage, it would fine to be working on more than one 
&gt; document, but
&gt; eventually we'll need to either downselect of merge the 
&gt; various documents. 

MW: Why? It seems to me at least as reasonable that we might end up
developing a number of different, but related documents. This is certainly
the approach we have taken in ISO TC184/SC4. For example ISO 10303 STEP, has
some 100 or so parts.
&gt;   
&gt; &gt;Also if so, could I propose that we include the EPISTLE work 
&gt; that Matthew
&gt; &gt;has done. This has the advantage of having been tried and 
&gt; tested for a
&gt; while
&gt; &gt;(though, as I'm sure Matthew himself will admit, it is far 
&gt; from perfect).
&gt; It
&gt; &gt;seems to me that it can only add to the SUO's credibility if 
&gt; it includes
&gt; &gt;something that has been established in commercial use.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;I expect that when Nicola Guarino's SUO paper is ready, he 
&gt; will want to
&gt; &gt;submit it for inclusion. And we would want to include it.
&gt; 
&gt; 	I would say the key ingredients for submission are:
&gt; 
&gt; 	a. Copyright release to authorize this IEEE WG to change and
&gt; distribute document.

MW: I know the intent is that the work of EPISTLE is freely available to be
used, provided the source is recognised, neither is adaptation a problem or
change (feedback would be appreciated). On the other hand I cannot find any
public statement to this effect. It is worth noting that in EXPRESS form the
EPISTLE Core Model is about to be issued as an ISO 15926-2 DIS (Draft
International Standard). 

Could you resend me a copy of the standard release form please? I will take
it up with the EPISTLE Management Committee.
&gt; 
&gt; 	b. Within Scope of WG

MW: smack in the middle.
&gt; 
&gt; 	c. Intent to develop document into final SUO standard, 
&gt; or to merge
&gt; it with other documents being worked on or anticipated.

MW: Yes. I would anticipate a separate document initially. I would expect a
mapping between this 4D and the current 3D work, rather than a merger, but
that can emerge over time.
&gt; 
&gt; 	d. Belief that enough participation can be generated to 
&gt; complete the
&gt; effort, to include a volunteer Technical Editor.  

MW: I would welcome someone volunteering for this with greater KIF skills
than I have. In the absence of that, I will volunteer.

&gt; 
&gt; 	The group would need to approve the official commencing 
&gt; of work on
&gt; any given document, though it can certainly take place via 
&gt; the list on an
&gt; unofficial basis.

MW: I would welcome a "vote of encouragement" to start this work. In ISO we
have an approach of having Preliminary Work Items, and New Work Items.  I
would map a proposal to develop a particular document onto a  priliminary
Work Item Proposal - what is suggested here. A later vote would be
appropriate to decide whether some results of this world should be developed
as a standard.

MW: I think now would be a good time to start developing this document.
&gt; 
&gt; Jim Schoening
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 	
&gt; 
Regards  
      Matthew
============================================
Matthew West
Operations &amp; Asset Management
Shell Services International
H3229, Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA, UK.
Tel: +44 207 934 4490 Fax: 7929 
Mobile: +44 7796 336538
E-mail: Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com
<A  HREF="http://www.shellservices.com/">http://www.shellservices.com/</A>
============================================

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01067.html">SUO: RE: Re: Policy On Substitutions</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01066.html">SUO: RE: RE: RE: RE: RE: Collections - Aggregation or Set</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01104.html">R: SUO: Echos</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01074.html">SUO: RE: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail69.html#01068"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd68.html#01068"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
