<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: Re: SUO: RE: SUO starter document -->
<!--X-From-R13: Oqnz Brnfr <ncrnfrNxf.grxabjyrqtr.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Wed, 23 May 2001 08:31:02 &#45;0400 (EDT) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: 5.1.0.14.2.20010523071533.02423c30@ks.teknowledge.com -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: 780D366C8FDBD411859D0000F80813713C7BD5@mail5.monmouth.army.mil -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg02720.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>Re: SUO: RE: SUO starter document</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:apease@ks.teknowledge.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg02707.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg02732.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd35.html#02720">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg02721.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg02719.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail36.html#02720">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>Re: SUO: RE: SUO starter document</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;,       &quot;'Nicola Guarino'&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it">Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it</A>&gt;,       &quot;Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: Re: SUO: RE: SUO starter document</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: Adam Pease &lt;<A HREF="mailto:apease@ks.teknowledge.com">apease@ks.teknowledge.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Wed, 23 May 2001 07:27:08 -0700</LI>
<LI><em>In-Reply-To</em>: &lt;<A HREF="msg02707.html">780D366C8FDBD411859D0000F80813713C7BD5@mail5.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: Adam Pease &lt;<A HREF="mailto:apease@ks.teknowledge.com">apease@ks.teknowledge.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Nicola,
   A few replies on your points below:

At 10:05 PM 5/22/2001 -0400, Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I wrote:

&gt;Nicola,
&gt;
&gt;         The message volume has not been the cause of our lack of progress,
&gt;it has just filled the void.  Our problem has been lack of something to
&gt;focus on.  Only one starter document has been proposed and the group did not
&gt;accept it (though it did pass in a straw poll).
&gt;
&gt;         Others have posted work, as you have, but have not been willing to
&gt;actually propose it as a group effort, probably because they didn't have the
&gt;time or resources to champion it any further.  This is understandable, but a
&gt;standard will only be developed if it has a core group willing to champion
&gt;it all the way.
&gt;
&gt;         Unless we have this key ingredient, no measure of good management
&gt;will lead this group to success.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Jim
&gt;
&gt;  -----Original Message-----
&gt;From:   Nicola Guarino [<A  HREF="mailto:Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it">mailto:Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it</A>]
&gt;Sent:   Tuesday, May 22, 2001 3:20 PM
&gt;To:     Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt;Subject:        Re: SUO starter document
&gt;
&gt;At 6:10 PM -0400 21/5/01, Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I wrote:
&gt; &gt;Nicola,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;       Have you given any further thought to submitting any of your work as
&gt; &gt;a starter document for SUO.  As you know, the group needs one or more
&gt; &gt;documents to focus its efforts on.
&gt;
&gt;Dear James,
&gt;
&gt;         The paper we have submitted to the IJCAI SUO Workshop (which
&gt;will be presented at the IJCAI ws on ontologies) cannot be intended
&gt;as a starter ontology, but can certainly be considered among the
&gt;starter documents. There is no attempt to be complete, though. A
&gt;preliminary version of our IKF reference ontology is scheduled by the
&gt;end of this year, and we should able to announce a  preliminary
&gt;top-level before Summer.
&gt;
&gt;         A further (indirect) contribution is my recent review of
&gt;Sowa's book and especially his top-level ontology. Since the current
&gt;merged ontology is based on it, this is implicitly a criticism to the
&gt;merged ontology. I have no time for an open, endless discussion on
&gt;this, but I will certainly welcome specific, focused observations.
&gt;
&gt;         In the meanwhile, our own contribution to the SUO initiative
&gt;will necessarily be very limited, mainly because of the fact that
&gt;this group hasn't been able to implement a strict issue-based
&gt;discussion methodology, nor the "bookshelf of results" proposed in
&gt;the past by Mike Uschold and myself. To me, the inhability of
&gt;achieving this and the lack of control of out-of-focus discussions on
&gt;the list reveals a serious failure of this initiative. This is also
&gt;the reason of my abstension regarding the Chair elections.

I'm surprised by this comment.  One of the first things I did was to 
compile precisely such a bookshelf of results at 
<A  HREF="http://suo.ieee.org/refs.html">http://suo.ieee.org/refs.html</A> .  For items that are relevant but are not 
themselves ontologies we created the page at <A  HREF="http://suo.ieee.org/links.html">http://suo.ieee.org/links.html</A> 
.  To document further anything that folks feel is relevant, the page at 
<A  HREF="http://suo.ieee.org/suopapers.htm">http://suo.ieee.org/suopapers.htm</A> was created and Jim made more than one 
invitation to people on the list to submit documents for posting at that 
location.

&gt;         A further reason of disappointment is the way the IEEE SUO
&gt;workshop has been managed. Still I don't know how many papers have
&gt;been submitted and selected. I suspect that ours was the only paper.
&gt;This could have been a useful opportunity to force people to condense
&gt;their proposals in papers, but apparently it didn't work.

This is the first I've heard of this concern from you.  I have not 
participated in any conference where the participants were routinely 
informed of all the acceptances prior to the conference so I don't think 
this is standard practice.  On the other hand, it's certainly a reasonable 
request once made.  Yours was certainly not the only paper.  I'll suggest 
to the other members of the organizing committee that we publish the papers 
on the web.  Chris Menzel has already made this suggestion.  I do agree 
however that folks have not taken full advantage of the opportunity 
provided by this conference to submit their proposals for progress in a 
paper.  I did blanket invitations to many relevant lists, repeated 
reminders to this one, as well as quite a number of individual 
invitations.  I do appreciate that you, as well as a number of others, 
submitted a paper.

&gt;         That's it, for now. I will be more active when this list will
&gt;be more efficient, and when a list of issues and proposals, with
&gt;defenders and opponents for each of them, will be posted on the Web
&gt;site. I know it is difficult, but it is the only way to proceed.

Well, I agree, but I wouldn't fault the moderator.  If more folks actually 
make concrete proposals, then the group can work on them.

Adam


&gt;Best wishes,
&gt;
&gt;-- Nicola
&gt;
&gt;P.S.: I am answering to you only since you sent me a personal
&gt;message; I encourage you to forward this to the whole list, however.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;   ---------------------------------
&gt;
&gt;Nicola Guarino
&gt;National Research Council       phone: +39 O49 8295751
&gt;LADSEB-CNR                      fax:   +39 O49 8295763
&gt;Corso Stati Uniti, 4            email: Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it
&gt;I-35127 Padova
&gt;Italy
&gt;
&gt;<A  HREF="http://www.ladseb.pd.cnr.it/infor/ontology/ontology.html">http://www.ladseb.pd.cnr.it/infor/ontology/ontology.html</A>
&gt;(***updated 21/5/2001 ***)

Adam Pease
Teknowledge
(650) 424-0500 x571

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<ul><li><strong>Follow-Ups</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="02732" href="msg02732.html">SUO: RE: SUO starter document - A constructive proposal</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> Nicola Guarino &lt;Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<ul><li><strong>References</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="02707" href="msg02707.html">SUO: RE: SUO starter document</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> &quot;Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I&quot; &lt;James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg02721.html">Re: SUO: RE: RE: SUO starter document</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg02719.html">SUO: RE: Re: Foundation Ontology</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg02707.html">SUO: RE: SUO starter document</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg02732.html">SUO: RE: SUO starter document - A constructive proposal</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail36.html#02720"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd35.html#02720"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
