<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for TechnicalEditor. -->
<!--X-From-R13: Dboreg Uenlfba Ecvyyref <fxlqbtNcnporyy.arg> -->
<!--X-Date: Wed, 28 Feb 2001 20:13:29 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: 3A9D9E4D.321C29D8@postoffice.pacbell.net -->
<!--X-Content-Type: multipart/alternative -->
<!--X-Reference: EC943C5D0768D311AF8A00805F85B83EF83092@master.aihw.gov.au -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01284.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for TechnicalEdi</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg01229.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01287.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd65.html#01284">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01285.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01283.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail65.html#01284">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for TechnicalEditor.</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;Horn, Graham&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;,       Jim Schoening &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for TechnicalEditor.</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: Robert Grayson Spillers &lt;<A HREF="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">skydog@pacbell.net</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Wed, 28 Feb 2001 16:56:46 -0800</LI>
<LI><em>Cc</em>: &quot;'Standard-Upper-Ontology '&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>References</em>: &lt;<A HREF="msg01229.html">EC943C5D0768D311AF8A00805F85B83EF83092@master.aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: Robert Grayson Spillers &lt;<A HREF="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">skydog@pacbell.net</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->


Graham,
<br>Your note leads me to think that you believe I am advocating CYC's
upper level as the basis of a standard.&nbsp; I am not.&nbsp; CYC's upper
level was constructed using the same methods Teknowledge proposes.&nbsp;
Neither CYC's ontology nor Teknowledge's proposed ontology are current
technology.&nbsp; I am opposed to BOTH as the basis of a standard.
<p>Both CYC and Teknowledge's ontologies will be useful in populating an
upper level ontology.&nbsp; I don't mean that they can be used without
modification (with luck, perhaps some portions can be used "as is").&nbsp;
Most of both ontologies should be useful to some degree.
<p>However, it is not technology (old or new) that are the reasons for
my objections.&nbsp; I will outline them below.
<p>1)&nbsp; This vote was called for by the chair on his own initiative
without a consensus on either the issue itself or on the need for such
a vote.&nbsp; Normally in this sort of group, votes are used to formalize
a consensus that has already been reached.
<p>2)&nbsp; The vote met resistance from the group and the chair then characterized
it as a "straw vote" with no official status.
<p>3)&nbsp; The group has been advised on several occasions (when objections
on other issues were raised) that there were no established procedures
for voting in an IEEE Working Group.&nbsp; After the vote was taken and
the results announced, the chair - when challenged - stated that Robert's
Rules are the method for vote counting in a IEEE WG.
<p>4)&nbsp; It is obvious that many of the processes in Robert's Rules
were not observed.
<p>5)&nbsp; The vote (YES = 11, NO = 9, ABSTAIN = 4) shows a very divided
group.&nbsp; At best a thin majority of YES vs NO, and clearly not a majority
of all the votes cast - certainly not a majority of those eligible to vote
(50% majority, not the 75% super majority frequently required in standards
work).
<p>6)&nbsp; On the basis of a "thin majority" in a "straw poll"&nbsp; the
chair announces his official "Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote"
- subject, of course,&nbsp; to there being no objections to his proposals.&nbsp;
When multiple objections were stated, the chair deemed them to be too few
to warrant a change in his proposed actions.
<p>I do not object to Teknowledge continuing this work.&nbsp; I think it
is valuable work and will eventually be useful in a standard upper level
ontology - just not in the manner they believe it to be useful.&nbsp; The
work is entirely under the control of Teknowledge, and they may proceed
as they wish.&nbsp; I have no objection to their ontology being posted
on the WG web site as "a" or "one" of the <u>unofficial</u> documents being
worked on by the WG.&nbsp; Ian is the obvious choice to be the technical
editor for this work.&nbsp; Since it is his (his company's) work no appointment
is necessary.&nbsp; If he agrees to be bound by the opinions of the WG
on technical matters regarding this work, he may do so without anyone's
appointment or approval.&nbsp; All of the things proposed can be done informally
and without objection.
<p>Why is this important?
<p>a)&nbsp; The chair has abused the process.&nbsp; This creates division
and lack of trust within the group.
<p>b)&nbsp; A "straw vote" is not a vote and no actions may proceed from
it.
<p>c)&nbsp; Votes on issues of substance should not be taken in standards
groups unless a broad consensus has developed.&nbsp; Only things (usually
administrative) that must be decided immediately should be put to a vote
without such a consensus.&nbsp; It is normally the role of the chair to
facilitate consensus - not division.
<p>d)&nbsp; Since all of the actions proposed by the chair may be done
informally and without objection (at least from me), these actions only
artificially introduce divisiveness and mistrust.
<br>&nbsp;
<p>Bob
<br><tt></tt>&nbsp;
<p>"Horn, Graham" wrote:
<blockquote TYPE=CITE>Bob,
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
I don't want to disregard real concerns, and I hope you
<br>don't think I am.
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
I wonder what can be gained by questioning "Why is there a
<br>need to take a formal decision?&nbsp; Why is there a need to formally
appoint a
<br>technical editor - the work is already completely under Ian's (Teknowledge?)
<br>control?&nbsp; Why declare formal decisions as the result of a "straw
vote" whose
<br>result is dubious - at best a thin majority?" No matter how unsatisfactory
<br>the answers are, the ballot we have had has happened, and I suspect
it would
<br>be hard to undo in any satisfactory manner.
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Underlying your concerns, I feel you likely have an option
<br>in mind that you feel is being hindered. At the risk of asking you
to repeat
<br>yourself, would you lake to restate what you feel should happen that
is
<br>being prevented by the current approach?
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
If I am interpreting you correctly, your main concern is
<br>your belief that "this approach will not produce anything significantly
<br>better than work already completed.&nbsp; It will be different, but
not better".
<br>You seem to want to build on Cyc. That would be fine if we could overcome
<br>the copyright issues Jim has described to us. Do you have a means of
<br>overcoming them?
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Is the "trust" issue you are referring to? What are you
<br>suggesting would be an alternative way ahead? Given the group's commitment
<br>to making the SUO available free of charge, how can we address this
issue in
<br>a way that gives the group a security over its effort? In particular,
how
<br>can we do it other than by binding commitments (such as releases on
<br>copyright)?
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In the same vein, are you able to briefly explain the
<br>salient aspects differentiating the current work from "current technology"
<br>in a way that makes it obvious to us? Unfortunately, I suspect that
speaking
<br>in generalities that do not at least make the specific issues evident
are
<br>unlikely to make the problems clear enough for us to comprehend their
<br>weight. This is the quandary always faced by people wishing to sell
<br>concepts. I am reminded that my desk calendar for 3 Dec '00 has the
saying:
<br>by Benjamin Jowett: "The way to get things done is not to mind who
gets the
<br>credit for doing them".
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
I realise the above questions may put you in a quandary, but
<br>not one I haven't seen before. I have witnessed many cases where people
have
<br>resisted paying for intellectual property, and where they have often
gone
<br>without those few key words that would let them in on the secret. I
don't
<br>know any way around that one.
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
If there's a viable approach you can suggest that makes
<br>sense to us, I'm sure we will all seriously consider it. NOTHING is
set in
<br>concrete.
<p>Cheers&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Graham Horn
<br>National Data Standards Unit
<br>Australian Institute of Health and Welfare
<br>================================================
<br>Phone:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 02.6244.1094
<br>Fax:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
02.6244.1199
<br>E&shy;mail:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Graham.Horn@aihw.gov.au
&lt;<a href="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</a>>
<p>-----Original Message-----
<br>From:&nbsp;&nbsp; Robert Grayson Spillers [<a href="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">mailto:skydog@pacbell.net</a>]
<br>Sent:&nbsp;&nbsp; Saturday, February 24, 2001 11:36 AM
<br>To:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Horn, Graham; 'Standard-Upper-Ontology
'
<br>Subject:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion
of Vote and Call for Volunteers for
<br>Techn icalEditor.
<p>Graham,
<br>I do think you miss my point (and Pat's).&nbsp; It is unnecessary to
have these
<br>votes or make these choices at this time.&nbsp; I believe this approach
will not
<br>produce anything significantly better than work already completed.&nbsp;
It will
<br>be different, but not better.
<p>Others disagree and want to proceed.&nbsp; I believe that their work
can be
<br>useful although not for the purposes they intend.&nbsp; All of this
can proceed
<br>(in parallel if necessary) on an informal basis.
<p>There is no conflict except the one artificially introduced by this
vote.
<p>The original work on alignment and merger was done by CYC (Fritz Lehmann)
<br>and USC / ISI (Ed Hovy) for the Ad Hoc Committee on Ontology.&nbsp;
I funded this
<br>work with IBM's money.&nbsp; The contract required all of the work
to be
<br>completely in the public domain.&nbsp; I also disclosed these relationships
to
<br>the committee before the work began.&nbsp; Although CYC has vastly
improved this
<br>work&nbsp; with the expenditure of significant additional time and
money,&nbsp; it is
<br>the same basic approach.
<p>Time (and research) has moved on and this is not current technology.
<br>Reasonable people may disagree.&nbsp; I would be happy (well, at least
not
<br>unhappy) to be proved wrong about this.
<p>Why is there a need to take a formal decision?&nbsp; Why is there a
need to
<br>formally appoint a technical editor - the work is already completely
under
<br>Ian's (Teknowledge?) control?&nbsp; Why declare formal decisions as
the result of
<br>a "straw vote" whose result is dubious - at best a thin majority?
<p>Technical merit and flexibility (although issues) are not the basic
issue.
<br>Trust is the&nbsp; basic issue - not merely bad judgment.
<p>Bob
<p>"Horn, Graham" wrote:
<p>> Hi Rob,
<br>>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
I think I can see in your e-mail (and many others in
<br>> retrospect), a sensitivity to the group being seen as having chosen
<br>> something.
<br>>
<br>>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Basically, it appears there is some feeling that Ian's
<br>work
<br>> cannot adapt to accommodate areas you believe are fundamentally important.
<br>>
<br>>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
I have taken the approach that the way ahead CAN
<br>accommodate
<br>> such matters, it's just a matter of how deep the structural changes
will
<br>> have to be to do it. As an engineer I can think of many examples
of both
<br>> hardware and software where major changes of paradigm have been made,
and
<br>> even cases where the change was reversed as much as a decade or more
<br>later.
<br>>
<br>>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Furthermore, as time passes, technological advances make
<br>> other approaches appropriate, or even possible when previously they
<br>weren't.
<br>> We live in a world of change.
<br>>
<br>>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Is it really so important if we settle on a particular
<br>path
<br>> for the time being? Especially as we have one that is so flexible.
I
<br>suggest
<br>> that no-one demands that the first iteration of a new standard be
perfect.
<br>> There will be no skin off anyone's noses if there are major redevelopments
<br>> and redesigns; so why worry so much. What will happen is that we'll
all
<br>> learn a lot.
<br>>
<br>> Cheers&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Graham Horn
<br>> National Data Standards Unit
<br>> Australian Institute of Health and Welfare
<br>> ================================================
<br>> Phone:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 02.6244.1094
<br>> Fax:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
02.6244.1199
<br>> E&shy;mail:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Graham.Horn@aihw.gov.au
&lt;<a href="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</a>>
<br>>
<br>> -----Original Message-----
<br>> From:&nbsp;&nbsp; Robert Grayson Spillers [<a href="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">mailto:skydog@pacbell.net</a>]
<br>> Sent:&nbsp;&nbsp; Wednesday, February 21, 2001 4:47 PM
<br>> To:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Horn, Graham
<br>> Cc:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 'skydog@pacbell.net'; 'Josiah Lee Auspitz';
Niles Teknowledge Ian
<br>> (E-mail); Schoening CECOM DCSC4I James (E-mail); Standard-Upper-Ontology
<br>> (E-mail); Kent E. Robert (E-mail)
<br>> Subject:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion
of Vote and Call for Volunteers
<br>for
<br>> Technical Editor
<br>>
<br>> Hi Graham,
<br>> Many, probably most, of the people who voted believe Ian's work is
useful
<br>> and
<br>> hope he will continue it.&nbsp;&nbsp; Some are willing to help directly
and many are
<br>> willing to offer critiques.&nbsp; The problem I have with this is
"official"
<br>> status.
<br>> Any number of ontology's may be posted to the web page as something
the WG
<br>> is
<br>> considering, members are enhancing or refining, etc. as long as it
is
<br>clear
<br>> that
<br>> it is only one of (possibly) many and enjoys no privileged&nbsp;
or "official"
<br>> status.
<br>>
<br>> Although this work will undoubtedly be useful in the later stages
of upper
<br>> level
<br>> ontological development, I (and others) do not believe it can be
the basis
<br>> for
<br>> such an ontology.&nbsp;&nbsp; The reasons for this view have been
previously stated.
<br>>
<br>> I do not wish&nbsp; it to appear this approach (or any other) is
one that has
<br>> been
<br>> formally chosen by the WG.&nbsp; I do not object to the proposed
actions on an
<br>> informal basis and do not see any benefit to the WG that can be derived
<br>from
<br>> a
<br>> characterization of the proposed actions as formally taken or official.
<br>> Later,
<br>> if and when a different approach is offered, the new approach does
not
<br>bear
<br>> the
<br>> burden of objections about changing the focus or otherwise challenging
<br>> prevailing orthodoxy.
<br>>
<br>> I think I am very easy to please in this regard.&nbsp; Just do what
you want to
<br>> do,
<br>> but do it&nbsp; informally.&nbsp; Do not characterize it as the result
of a decision
<br>> formally taken by the WG.&nbsp; You will get the same result.
<br>>
<br>> Regarding the issues Lee Auspitz raised particularly those about
resolving
<br>> outstanding issues and reaching consensus, I agree and will have
more to
<br>say
<br>> later.
<br>>
<br>> After this situation is resolved, I will offer for discussion a suggestion
<br>> on
<br>> voting rules.&nbsp; If a general consensus develops, I will move
for a formal
<br>> vote on
<br>> adoption.
<br>>
<br>> Bob
<br>>
<br>> "Horn, Graham" wrote:
<br>>
<br>> > Hi Lee and Rob (Skydog),
<br>> >&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
While I understand where you're coming
<br>> from,
<br>> > isn't it better to just get on with it at this stage?
<br>> >
<br>> >&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Yes, I have problems with the voting method, too.
<br>However,
<br>> I
<br>> > feel the later approval stages is the time to really address them.
<br>> >
<br>> >&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Personally, I believe the call for a vote, and the way
<br>it
<br>> > was done was a mistake, but even Jim has apologised for that.
<br>> >
<br>> >&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Many of us agree Ian's work is worthwhile. Matthew is
<br>> > prepared to contribute to it, including scoping and technical
<br>> documentation.
<br>> > Ian is prepared to take on board comments and criticisms, and rectify
<br>> > problem areas and faulty portions.
<br>> >
<br>> >&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Meanwhile, Robert Kent is working on a new project that
<br>> may
<br>> > be of relevance to the overall effort.
<br>> >
<br>> >&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Where's the problem?
<br>> >
<br>> > Cheers&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Graham Horn
<br>> > National Data Standards Unit
<br>> > Australian Institute of Health and Welfare
<br>> > ================================================
<br>> > Phone:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 02.6244.1094
<br>> > Fax:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
02.6244.1199
<br>> > E&shy;mail:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Graham.Horn@aihw.gov.au
&lt;<a href="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</a>>
<br>> > -----Original Message-----
<br>> > From: skydog@pacbell.net [<a href="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">mailto:skydog@pacbell.net</a>]
<br>> > Sent: Wednesday, February 21, 2001 11:50 AM
<br>> > To: Josiah Lee Auspitz
<br>> > Cc: Ian Niles; 'Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I';
<br>Standard-Upper-Ontology
<br>> > (E-mail)
<br>> > Subject: Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers
for
<br>> > TechnicalEdit or
<br>> >
<br>> > Jim,
<br>> > I share Lee's concerns regarding these issues.
<br>> > However I wish to discuss issues about the vote itself and what,
if
<br>> > anything, it means. It is not clear from Robert's Rules of Order
that
<br>the
<br>> > vote should be counted by the method you used - particularly how
the
<br>> ABSTAIN
<br>> > votes were counted. It is a possible interpretation - Robert's
calls for
<br>> > counting of all the votes cast and determining a majority of the
YES vs
<br>NO
<br>> > votes with blank votes not counted. In this circumstance is an
ABSTAIN
<br>> vote
<br>> > a blank vote? Since it requires comments, I think it is not a blank
<br>vote.
<br>> > Reasonable people can disagree, but it is not clear how the rule
should
<br>be
<br>> > applied.
<br>> > It is unwise to wait until the vote is taken to announce the method
and
<br>> > authority used to determine the results.
<br>> > Robert's rules were not designed for this sort of vote and the
<br>> > interpretation of this particular issue is murky. Clearly most
standards
<br>> > efforts strive for a broad based consensus and usually require
75% of
<br>> those
<br>> > eligible to vote (effectively a quorum) and 75% of those actually
<br>voting.
<br>> > ABSTAIN whether counted as NO or not does apply to the calculation
of
<br>75%
<br>> of
<br>> > those actually voting. (In your call for a vote ABSTAIN was listed
as a
<br>> > possible voting choice with attendant requirements - i.e. comments
<br>> > required.)
<br>> > Regardless of how the vote was counted, other provisions of Robert's
<br>Rules
<br>> > were not observed. In particular the making of motions and call
for a
<br>vote
<br>> > on the initiative of the chair. I do recall someone raising a point
of
<br>> > order.
<br>> > This vote was then characterized as a "straw vote" and not an "official"
<br>> > action of the group. I have no problem with an expression of opinion.
I
<br>do
<br>> > have a problem if the chair then announces his "Proposed Conclusions
and
<br>> > Actions" as a result of the "straw vote". It appears to be an official
<br>> > action of the WG.
<br>> > Reference to "a" or "one" unofficial document being worked on by
some
<br>> > members of the WG, more accurately reflects the situation. It is
Niles
<br>> > (Teknowledge?) work and he is completely in charge of how it proceeds.
<br>If
<br>> he
<br>> > agrees to be bound by the consensus of the WG and do the work of
<br>technical
<br>> > editor, I applaud him - it is very useful work. An "official"
<br>appointment
<br>> as
<br>> > "technical editor" is unnecessary and inappropriate. It appears
to put a
<br>> > stamp on something that has not been formally agreed to. I have
no
<br>> objection
<br>> > to informal arrangements.
<br>> > Once again I wish to point out that I believe this vote to be
<br>unnecessary
<br>> > and divisive.
<br>> > In your note of 2/13/01 titled " SUO: Proposed Conclusions and
Actions
<br>> from
<br>> > Vote" you asked if there were any objections. I object.
<br>> > Bob
<br>> >
<br>> > Josiah Lee Auspitz wrote:
<br>> > Jim,
<br>> > Maybe you or some ome of the other experts in IEEE procedure in
our
<br>ranks
<br>> > could clarify what is going on here.
<br>> > First you posted several topics as needing consensus before we
proceed.
<br>> What
<br>> > is the status of the consensus on these topics? Does it warrant
plunging
<br>> > ahead before developing a greater consensus? I strongly think not.
<br>> > Second, you responded to Graham Horn that it was wrong for a single
<br>> > organization, no matter how large and influential, to claim multiple
<br>> votes.
<br>> > Yet of the 11 Yes votes I count at least three from Teknowledge
just the
<br>> > number needed to assure a majority. Wasn't there some celebrated
case in
<br>> > IEEE involving bloc voting by a single company (as opposed to
<br>> individualized
<br>> > participation in the case of the Boeing participants)? [This is
the kind
<br>> of
<br>> > problem I tried to suggest in noting the limitations of the "material
<br>> > interest" criterion for the peculiar character of the SUO.]
<br>> > Of course this is only a straw vote, and everybody good humoredly
<br>followed
<br>> > your request for it, your revision of it, your launching of discussion
<br>of
<br>> > the comments, and now your declaration that we can put it all behind
us
<br>on
<br>> > the basis of Roberts Rules of Order. Before following this next
turn I
<br>> think
<br>> > it would be prudent to ask you to summarize the status of consensus
on
<br>the
<br>> > discussion points you proposed and to assure that the agreement
on them
<br>is
<br>> > sufficient to make it productive to plunge onward. Otherwise, the
next
<br>> round
<br>> > of reviews will not be more favorable than this round, or you may
find
<br>> > active participation limited to the point of diminishing legitimacy.
The
<br>> > array of talents on this list is very impressive for the job at
hand,
<br>and
<br>> > good advice has been proffered by seasoned hands. It would be a
pity to
<br>> see
<br>> > all this squandered.
<br>> > Lee
<br>> > Josiah Lee Auspitz
<br>> > lee@textwise.com
<br>> > 17 Chapel Street
<br>> > Somerville, MA 02144
<br>> > 617-628-6228
<br>> > fax -9441
<br>> > Please send attachments pasted within text or in ASCII
<br>> > Plain Text non-proprietary software.
<br>> > On Tue, 20 Feb 2001, Ian Niles wrote:
<br>> > > Hi Jim,
<br>> > > I hereby volunteer for the role of Technical Editor of the Merged
<br>> > > Ontology document.
<br>> >
<br>> > > -Ian
<br>> >
<br>> > > > -----Original Message-----
<br>> > > > From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
<br>> > > > [<a href="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</a>
<br>> > &lt;<a href="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</a>>
]
<br>> > > > Sent: Friday, February 16, 2001 7:11 PM
<br>> > > > To: Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)
<br>> > > > Subject: SUO: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for
<br>Technical
<br>> > Editor
<br>> >
<br>> > > > SUO:
<br>> >
<br>> > > > As there have been no objections to the below proposed
<br>> > > > conclusions
<br>> > > > and proposed actions, they are considered adopted.
<br>> > > > Congratulations, Ian,
<br>> > > > Adam, and all those who have contributed to the Merged Ontology.
<br>> > > >
<br>> > > > We now need to select a Technical Editor for this
<br>> > > > document, via an
<br>> > > > open and fair process. I would now like to issue a 'Call
<br>> > > > for Volunteers'
<br>> > > > for the position of Technical Editor of the Merged Ontology
<br>document.
<br>> > > > Please respond to me and/or this list by Feb 23rd, or if this
<br>> > > > is not enough
<br>> > > > time, ask for an extension.
<br>> > > >
<br>> > > > Jim Schoening
<br>> >
<br>> > > > -----Original Message-----
<br>> > > > From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
<br>> > > > [<a href="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</a>
<br>> > &lt;<a href="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</a>>
]
<br>> > > > Sent: Tuesday, February 13, 2001 6:53 PM
<br>> > > > To: 'Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)'
<br>> > > > Subject: SUO: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote
<br>> > > >
<br>> > > >
<br>> > > > SUO,
<br>> > > > Final vote results on Merged Ontology (see ballot question
<br>> > > > below) are:
<br>> > > > YES = 11
<br>> > > > NO = 9
<br>> > > > ABSTAIN = 4
<br>> >
<br>> > > > YES votes were from: John Thompson, Adam Pease, John Velman,
<br>> > > > Graham Horn,
<br>> > > > Roberto Bordogna, Ian Niles, Douglas McDavid, John Sowa,
<br>> > > > Fredrick Chase,
<br>> > > > Frank Farance, Jay Halcomb.
<br>> > > > NO votes were from: Matthew West, Chris Partridge, Robert
<br>> > > > Kent, Stefano
<br>> > > > Borgo, John Dickert, Francis McCabe, Lee Auspitz, Bob
<br>> > > > Spillers, Chris Angus.
<br>> >
<br>> > > > ABSTAINs were from: Pat Hayes, Michael Uschold, Sofia Pinto,
Nicola
<br>> > > > Guarino
<br>> > > > Please correct me if I have tabulated your vote incorrectly.
<br>> > > > Observations:
<br>> > > > 1. The IEEE default voting rule within a working group is a
simple
<br>> > > > majority of YES vs. NO votes, with ABSTAINs not included in
<br>> > > > determining
<br>> > > > majority.
<br>> > > > 2. This vote was presented as an unofficial straw poll,
<br>> > > > because we are
<br>> > > > currently establishing the list of official voters.
<br>> > > > 3. We previously established considerable opposition to calling
the
<br>> > > > Merged Ontology a "Base Document," and have since modified
<br>> > > > the question to
<br>> > > > remove this label.
<br>> > > > 4. All comments that were directly related to the question
<br>> > > > have been
<br>> > > > posted, and received much discussion. Some votes did change
<br>> > > > as a result of
<br>> > > > discussion and are reflected in the above results. Those
<br>> > > > comments that
<br>> > > > related to improving the document were not to be addressed
<br>> > > > until and unless
<br>> > > > the group decided to work on this document. This is the way
ballot
<br>> > > > resolution works. We try to improve documents and build consensus
by
<br>> > > > resolving comments.
<br>> > > > 5. This is a very early-on vote in the development of the proposed
<br>> > > > document.
<br>> > > > It will eventually need to gain 75% approval from the final
<br>> > > > balloting group.
<br>> > > > Proposed Conclusions:
<br>> > > > 1. A simple majority voted YES to the question (copy
<br>> > > > below), therefore,
<br>> > > > this vote has passed, but by a recognized thin margin.
<br>> > > > 2. Aside from the thin approval margin, the group appears to
have
<br>> > > > rather strong consensus that work should proceed on the
<br>> > > > Merged Ontology.
<br>> > > > This comes even from many of those who voted NO, who did so
<br>> > > > for the reasons
<br>> > > > in the posted comments.
<br>> >
<br>> > > > Proposed Actions resulting from above:
<br>> > > > Step 1: Post link to Merged Ontology on SUO web site at
<br>> > > > <a href="http://suo.ieee.org">http://suo.ieee.org</a> &lt;<a href="http://suo.ieee.org">http://suo.ieee.org</a>>
.
<br>> > > > as follows:
<br>> > > > Documents under development by this working group:
<br>> > > > 1. Merged Ontology &lt;link address>
<br>> > > >
<br>> > > > Step 2: Select a Technical Editor for Merged Ontology document,
to
<br>be
<br>> > > > accomplished by issuing a 'Call for volunteers' followed by
<br>> > > > an open and fair
<br>> > > > selection process.
<br>> > > > Step 3: Place Merged Ontology Document under control of SUO
<br>> > > > WG, requiring
<br>> > > > Technical Editor to gain approval from group before making
<br>> > > > changes. This
<br>> > > > would be mostly via an informal consensus process, but would
<br>> > > > also include
<br>> > > > formal votes (with comment resolution) every 3-6 months.
<br>> > > > Step 4: Technical Editor will resolve all comments from the
<br>> > > > previous vote
<br>> > > > that dealt with improvements to Merged Ontology. Additional
<br>> > > > comments will
<br>> > > > also be solicited.
<br>> > > > Are there any objections to these Observations, Proposed
<br>> > > > Conclusions, or
<br>> > > > Proposed Actions?
<br>> > > > Jim Schoening
<br>> > > > Chair, SUO WG
<br>> > > >
<br>> > > > ===============================
<br>> > > > The completed call for vote follows:
<br>> >
<br>> > > > -----Original Message-----
<br>> > > > From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
<br>> > > > [<a href="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</a>
<br>> > &lt;<a href="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</a>>
]
<br>> > > > Sent: Thursday, January 18, 2001 7:03 AM
<br>> > > > To: Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)
<br>> > > > Subject: SUO: Revised Call for Vote on Merged Ontology
<br>> > > >
<br>> > > >
<br>> > > >
<br>> > > > SUO Participants,
<br>> > > > 1. Since the prior vote had a variety of problems, it is amended
as
<br>> > > > follows to focus on the key question.
<br>> > > > 2. If you have already cast a vote (and received
<br>> > > > acknowledgement) you
<br>> > > > don't need to vote again, unless you wish to change your vote
<br>> > > > or comments.
<br>> > > > However, this is an open list and all are welcome to post or
<br>> > > > repost their
<br>> > > > opinions.
<br>> > > > 3. This message is a call for a vote on the question:
<br>> > > >
<br>> > > > Should the IEEE Standard Upper Ontology Working Group
<br>> > > > commence work on the
<br>> > > > Merged Ontology as posted by Ian Niles with the intent of
<br>> > > > attempting to
<br>> > > > develop it into a final standards document?
<br>> > > > 4. Background: If this vote passes, this document will change
from
<br>> > > > being the work (and under the control) of a group of
<br>> > > > individuals to being
<br>> > > > the work (and under the control) of the SUO WG. A Technical
<br>> > > > Editor will
<br>> > > > need to be appointed or elected, who will need group approval
<br>> > > > before making
<br>> > > > changes. This does not require frequent formal votes for
<br>> > > > every change. A
<br>> > > > better approach for daily or weekly updates is to develop consensus
<br>by
<br>> > > > resolving objections, as we did when revising the Scope and
<br>> > > > Purpose. In
<br>> > > > other words, the editor posts a suggested change and asks for
any
<br>> > > > objections. Items that do not have clear consensus would be
<br>> > > > accumulated.
<br>> > > > Then, every 3-6 months the group could have a formal vote on
<br>> > > > what would be
<br>> > > > the next 'Working Draft.' Comments would be submitted and
<br>> > > > resolved before
<br>> > > > approval as the next Working Draft.
<br>> > > > 5. The purpose of this vote is to determine the level of
<br>> > > > consensus we
<br>> > > > have for focusing work on this document. In other words, we
<br>> > > > need to decide
<br>> > > > if we are going to go down this path or not. A working group
<br>> > > > may decide to
<br>> > > > work on more than one document, so anyone else is free to submit
<br>one.
<br>> > > > 6. The primary purpose of this vote is NOT to propose
<br>> > > > improvements to
<br>> > > > the document, unless they are major enough for you to vote
<br>> > > > against focusing
<br>> > > > work on this document. However, such general improvement comments
<br>are
<br>> > > > welcome and will be resolved (but not unless and until the
<br>> > > > vote passes.
<br>> > > > There would be no sense in resolving comments if the group
<br>> > > > does not want to
<br>> > > > proceed with this document.).
<br>> > > > 7. Since we are still in the process of establishing
<br>> > > > official voting
<br>> > > > rights, I suggest we first conduct this as an unofficial
<br>> > > > straw poll, such
<br>> > > > that anyone can cast a vote. After resolving all comments,
<br>> > > > if consensus is
<br>> > > > not clear, we will have the option of conducting a formal
<br>> > > > vote (once voting
<br>> > > > rights are established).
<br>> > > > 8. Your options for voting are YES (comments optional), NO
<br>> > > > (comments
<br>> > > > required), or ABSTAIN (comments optional).
<br>> > > > 9. You may send your votes either to me or to this reflector.
<br>> > > > 10. Please vote by Feb 1, 2001.
<br>> > > >
<br>> > > > Jim Schoening
<br>> > > > Chair, SUO WG</blockquote>


<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<ul><li><strong>Follow-Ups</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="01287" href="msg01287.html">Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Techn icalEditor.</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> Adam Pease &lt;apease@ks.teknowledge.com&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<ul><li><strong>References</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="01229" href="msg01229.html">RE: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Technical Editor.</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> &quot;Horn, Graham&quot; &lt;graham.horn@aihw.gov.au&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01285.html">SUO: RE: A proposed SUO content outline</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01283.html">Re: SUO: OMG, UML and Ontologies</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01229.html">RE: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Technical Editor.</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01287.html">Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Techn icalEditor.</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail65.html#01284"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd65.html#01284"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
