<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: RE: SUO: Excessive volume of effort for far too few results -->
<!--X-From-R13: Oqnz Brnfr <ncrnfrNxf.grxabjyrqtr.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Thu, 5 Apr 2001 11:07:17 &#45;0400 (EDT) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: 4.2.0.58.20010405073814.019c6848@ks.teknowledge.com -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: BA19E8144C20D51185030000E2382D1E1D2E21@master.aihw.gov.au -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg02061.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>RE: SUO: Excessive volume of effort for far too few results</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:apease@ks.teknowledge.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg02060.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg02063.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd47.html#02061">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg02062.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg02060.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail49.html#02061">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>RE: SUO: Excessive volume of effort for far too few results</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: <A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: RE: SUO: Excessive volume of effort for far too few results </LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: Adam Pease &lt;<A HREF="mailto:apease@ks.teknowledge.com">apease@ks.teknowledge.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Thu, 05 Apr 2001 07:44:24 -0700</LI>
<LI><em>In-Reply-To</em>: &lt;<A HREF="msg02052.html">BA19E8144C20D51185030000E2382D1E1D2E21@master.aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: Adam Pease &lt;<A HREF="mailto:apease@ks.teknowledge.com">apease@ks.teknowledge.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Graham,
   Sorry to have given the wrong impression.  My intent was just to amplify 
your expression of concern.  I appreciate and acknowledge your support.
   I thought I had seen replies about the biology representations you 
suggested.  There is an "organism hierarchy" section in the merged 
ontology.  David's work has been incorporated and greatly extended by the 
material provided by Chris Menzel.  Any corrections or additions you might 
have would be most welcome.

Adam

At 06:10 PM 4/5/2001 +1000, Horn, Graham wrote:
&gt;Adam,
&gt;         .       Please don't get me wrong, I have been strongly supportive
&gt;of all the development work to date, and the effort that has gone into it.
&gt;This should be plainly evident from my support for the merged ontology and
&gt;ALL contributions to it or elsewhere. Your e-mail seems to indicate you
&gt;don't appreciate that FACT, and even seems to infer the opposite.
&gt;
&gt;         .       Basically my concern is that there is also an enormous and
&gt;valuable amount of discourse in the existing database the explications and
&gt;resolutions of which would be very worthwhile material for the SUO
&gt;supporting documents necessary to explain assumptions and intended
&gt;perspectives underpinning the SUO. I am concerned that this material
&gt;currently looks like being discarded, along with much similar discussion
&gt;still ahead of us if we don't develop and implement ways of capturing it or
&gt;its essence.
&gt;
&gt;         .       Meanwhile, Matthew West is beginning to embark on an
&gt;exercise that will necessarily amount to the replication of much of the
&gt;insights and background developed in that material.
&gt;
&gt;         .       Furthermore, much of the discussion has been unco-ordinated,
&gt;excessive and, because many of us are too busy to take it all in, repetitive
&gt;as people cover the same ground in parallel with each other. It is the
&gt;resulting wasted effort that I am trying to address, because of the energy
&gt;it is sapping.
&gt;
&gt;         .       I would appreciate it if you could make suggestions relating
&gt;to this area, in addition to your suggestions below, which go without
&gt;saying.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;         .       But, now that you have put out your plea below, I feel I
&gt;should address another side of that area also. In terms of concrete
&gt;proposals for SUO content, I expressed the desire some months ago about
&gt;contributing generic physiological material I have developed, covering most
&gt;vertebrate land animals, and relating to the rest plus vertebrate sea
&gt;animals.
&gt;
&gt;         .       I figure content of such a generic character would be
&gt;relevant to such an enormous proportion of all biological and related
&gt;sciences and practices that it would warrant inclusion in any very general
&gt;ontology of sufficient breadth. I also figure that it is not so different to
&gt;some of the topological/geometrical material already in the merged ontology.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;         .       Unfortunately I didn't even get any replies indicating
&gt;whether or how such general subject matter should be added. I have held off
&gt;from proposing it for that reason.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;         .       Incidentally, I note you mention David Whitten's
&gt;contributions. When I look at the Merged Ontology, I can see no
&gt;acknowledgment of his work, and have therefore concluded it is not included.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;         .       Is anyone able to advise what happened to David's work?
&gt;Surely, since he was the first person to actually begin a precursor to the
&gt;SUO, there should be some recognition of his work.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Cheers                                  Graham Horn
&gt;National Data Standards Unit
&gt;Australian Institute of Health and Welfare
&gt;================================================
&gt;Phone:          +61.2.6244.1094
&gt;Fax:            +61.2.6244.1199
&gt;E­mail:         Graham.Horn@aihw.gov.au &lt;<A  HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;-----Original Message-----
&gt;From:   Adam Pease [<A  HREF="mailto:apease@ks.teknowledge.com">mailto:apease@ks.teknowledge.com</A>]
&gt;Sent:   Thursday, April 05, 2001 2:50 PM
&gt;To:     standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org
&gt;Subject:        Re: SUO: Excessive volume of effort for far too few results
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Graham,
&gt;    I too am dismayed by the volume of discussion and the sense that although
&gt;individual contributors have benefited from the discussion, and a rather
&gt;small group is making progress on an ontology, that we're not working
&gt;together and making collective progress on a standard.  I believe that the
&gt;solution is not improved document management or better tools but rather for
&gt;folks to be specific and concrete in developing a formal document expressing
&gt;their preferred version of an upper ontology.
&gt;    If you believe something specific is lacking in the Merged ontology that
&gt;Ian has been working on, suggest a new axiom, or set of terms.  If some
&gt;folks would prefer EXIST or some other basis for the standard, then offer
&gt;concrete extensions to it using the EBNF syntax defined for it.  Formalisms
&gt;without explanation or discussion may make it difficult for some folks to
&gt;communicate but discussion without formalisms will lead us simply to more
&gt;talk.
&gt;    I would like to applaud those folks who have been very concrete (and
&gt;forgive me for those who I have forgotten): Helena Sofia Pinto for
&gt;contributing an ontology of units and measures, Nicola Guarino and his
&gt;colleagues for their work on mereology, Pat Hayes for his detailed and
&gt;specific help on temporal axioms, Chris Menzel, David Whitten and Robert
&gt;Kent for their work on the "structural ontology".  We should also thank John
&gt;Sowa, Achille Varzi, Roberto Casati, James Allen, Barry Smith, Stuart
&gt;Russell, Peter Norvig and all the unattributed contributors to the
&gt;Ontolingua repository.
&gt;    If everyone on this list would create just some small ontology of even a
&gt;dozen terms supported by axioms that has not yet been covered in the merged
&gt;ontology, we could make tremendous progress.   This could also include
&gt;domain-specific ontologies as the exercise of linking such ontologies to the
&gt;merged ontology will elucidate the general areas that need to be developed.
&gt;    How about a practical semiotics of books, recordings and documents; how
&gt;about some basic graph theory with application to roads or computer
&gt;networks; how about an ontology of human obligations;  an ontology of speech
&gt;acts;  an ontology of textures and coverings;  an ontology of materials;  an
&gt;ontology transfers of possession.  The number and richness of available
&gt;areas is astonishing.  For academics and industrial researchers there are a
&gt;wealth of possible papers to write on these topics.  For applied computer
&gt;scientists and systems analysts, formalize the information model of your
&gt;current project and I guarantee that you that you'll produce a better model.
&gt;    Let me reiterate Leibniz' call to "Let us calculate!"
&gt;
&gt;Adam
&gt;
&gt;At 12:43 PM 4/5/2001 +1000, Horn, Graham wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt;Jim,
&gt; &gt;         .       I have raised before with you the problem of the method of
&gt; &gt;dialogue exhausting participants.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       I feel things are reaching saturation / burnout point.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       I am aware there are ways of reducing the plethora of
&gt; &gt;dialogue, mainly by co-ordinating contributions into fewer themes, so that
&gt; &gt;the same discussion doesn't get repeated many times (with variations) in
&gt; &gt;parallel. Although I am not an expert in that aspect of dialogue
&gt;management,
&gt; &gt;one way I can think of is for each thread to be by way of a document that
&gt; &gt;gets worked on, and passed between participants. This can be either
&gt; &gt;sequentially, or in parallel using some form of document management system
&gt; &gt;such as I have experienced with Lotus Notes (which I, and I suspect most of
&gt; &gt;us, don't have at present).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       Although I haven't experienced it, I gather Outlook has
&gt;some
&gt; &gt;similar functionality. As Co-ordinator, Jim, I suggest it should be up to
&gt; &gt;you to introduce and manage such a system. If something like that doesn't
&gt; &gt;happen, I believe the PROJECT WILL DIE OF EXHAUSTION.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       I suggest anyone wishing to respond to the suggestion
&gt;below
&gt; &gt;do so by editing it into what they see as being a better approach, rather
&gt; &gt;than interspersing comments. Perhaps a good way would be to put their
&gt; &gt;changes in upper case for ease of identification.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       I would be happy to do some prototyping by then trying
&gt; &gt;several ways of co-ordinating the various perspectives into some coherent
&gt; &gt;form of document, and people can then judge the results.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       Of course, if anyone is aware of any mature paradigm that
&gt; &gt;could be used as an alternative, please say so. I don't want to reinvent
&gt;the
&gt; &gt;wheel, but rather just find a better way of achieving our on-line goal.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       Let me set out some initial perspectives on this
&gt;suggestion
&gt; &gt;a bit further. We are talking about a methodology for managing e-mail
&gt; &gt;discussion used for developing a complex standard in a highly sophisticated
&gt; &gt;area.
&gt; &gt;*       Each topic gets a title, and a document defining the topic, that
&gt; &gt;aims at providing a position that resolves the issue. If consensus isn't
&gt; &gt;reached, then several perspectives are provided in the document, if
&gt; &gt;necessary one per participant.
&gt; &gt;*       Whenever anyone diverts from the subject at hand, their
&gt;contribution
&gt; &gt;gets reallocated to another topic, either existing, or a new one.
&gt; &gt;*       Breadth of a topic is governed by the quantity of text required to
&gt; &gt;resolve any particular perspective
&gt; &gt;*       The moderator:
&gt; &gt;*       .       needs to be able to differentiate clearly between the
&gt; &gt;varying perspectives by accurately and precisely identifying where each
&gt; &gt;contribution fits,
&gt; &gt;*       .       piece together and co-ordinate the contributions of
&gt; &gt;different participants, so as to minimise the number of topics / documents.
&gt; &gt;         This takes a particular skill set not everyone has, an ability to
&gt; &gt;delineate between, and co-ordinate concepts.
&gt; &gt;*       Each contributor:
&gt; &gt;*       .       has a say about how their contribution is added to the
&gt; &gt;document, if necessary by providing a new perspective. and
&gt; &gt;*       ,       is responsible for the maintenance of their own
&gt;perspectives
&gt; &gt;(thereby limiting the number of parallel perspectives each contributor adds
&gt; &gt;to any topic). This would be by using portions of other perspectives so as
&gt; &gt;to flesh out the parts they don't have any problems with.
&gt; &gt;*       Each perspective in each document is not discarded until the
&gt;project
&gt; &gt;is complete, lest any seemingly irrelevant issue turns out to be needed
&gt; &gt;later. Where agreement is reached, perspectives can be merged. Each
&gt;document
&gt; &gt;then matures into a number of competing bases for a portion of the SUO
&gt; &gt;standard, or its supporting documents.
&gt; &gt;*       Discussions about why anything should be a particular way amount to
&gt; &gt;additional topics, and this is likely to assist others later, who can be
&gt; &gt;referred to the relevant topic to answer their query. This means that many
&gt; &gt;topics should be quite small and succinct.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       This may sound like a lot of work, and it is. But, how
&gt;much
&gt; &gt;work has happened even on-line to date???? How much value will be gained
&gt; &gt;from the database, or is it just some monument providing evidence that a
&gt;lot
&gt; &gt;of effort was expended by a group of people
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       The fundamental difference to what has happened to date is
&gt; &gt;that the contributions are moulded into useful building blocks, rather than
&gt; &gt;just comprising discussion threads that resolve an issue of understanding,
&gt; &gt;and are then, effectively of no further use. This means that the formatting
&gt; &gt;must be of an exposition, rather than a discussion. Nevertheless, the
&gt;number
&gt; &gt;of topics/documents would be (well) over 100.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       In order to substantiate the justifications for my
&gt;concern,
&gt; &gt;and the merits of abandoning the current paradigm, let me ask the following
&gt; &gt;questions.
&gt; &gt;*       How many megabytes is the discussion database is now?
&gt; &gt;*       How many contributions does it hold?
&gt; &gt;*       What is going to be made of all the work to date?
&gt; &gt;*       Is anyone going to sift through it?
&gt; &gt;*       If so, HOW?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       I suggest that the value of the work to date is that we
&gt;have
&gt; &gt;"gotten to know" both the subject area and each other to an extent that we
&gt; &gt;can now work forward on a mature and disciplined way.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       My reaction to the above is that it could be a way of
&gt; &gt;implementing the documents that Matthew has proposed with less effort from
&gt; &gt;all of us than the current approach. It would turn Matthew's job more into
&gt; &gt;one of editor / moderator, than author. If done well, this should be a
&gt;means
&gt; &gt;of facilitating greater consensus over the resultant standard.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       In addition, I suggest that it would be possible, if
&gt;someone
&gt; &gt;had the energy and inclination, for an awful lot of this to be now done
&gt; &gt;retrospectively by sifting through the discussion threads to date, and
&gt; &gt;selecting the mature bits. I hesitate to suggest that anyone would actually
&gt; &gt;like to take on such a task, but I guess it's an option.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       I put this suggestion up as the germ of a management
&gt;concept
&gt; &gt;I believe could be both more efficient, and more productive.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;         .       It isn't a mature proposal by any means, and isn't even
&gt; &gt;internally consistent, but rather contains differing options within itself.
&gt; &gt;It would require considerable refinement before implementation. Even then,
&gt; &gt;it would necessarily go through a drastic development phase based on
&gt; &gt;unforseen aspects during initial implementation.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;Cheers                                  Graham Horn
&gt; &gt;National Data Standards Unit
&gt; &gt;Australian Institute of Health and Welfare
&gt; &gt;================================================
&gt; &gt;Phone:          +61.2.6244.1094
&gt; &gt;Fax:            +61.2.6244.1199
&gt; &gt;E­mail:         Graham.Horn@aihw.gov.au &lt;<A  HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;-----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt;From:   Frederick N. Chase [<A  HREF="mailto:fnc@mitre.org">mailto:fnc@mitre.org</A>]
&gt; &gt;Sent:   Wednesday, April 04, 2001 11:31 PM
&gt; &gt;To:     Jon Awbrey
&gt; &gt;Cc:     standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org
&gt; &gt;Subject:        SUO: Re: iercePay
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;Jon,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;I too am frustrated by the volume of
&gt; &gt;work-in-progress and evangelism re C.S. Pierce.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;While I find it interesting, even fascinating,
&gt; &gt;and while I don't question its relevance,
&gt; &gt;I have *no* funding to be working on the SUO.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;So it's simply impossible for me to deal with
&gt; &gt;stream-of-consciousness stuff, however many
&gt; &gt;insights may be buried therein.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;So I'd appreciate more separation of
&gt; &gt;your SUO contributions and
&gt; &gt;your CS Pierce scholarship.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;    -Fred Chase
&gt;
&gt;-----------------
&gt;Adam Pease
&gt;Teknowledge
&gt;(650) 424-0500 x571

-----------------
Adam Pease
Teknowledge
(650) 424-0500 x571

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<ul><li><strong>References</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="02052" href="msg02052.html">RE: SUO: Excessive volume of effort for far too few results</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> &quot;Horn, Graham&quot; &lt;graham.horn@aihw.gov.au&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg02062.html">SUO: Re: Imp'o'sition</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg02060.html">Re: SUO: Excessive volume of effort for far too few results</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg02060.html">Re: SUO: Excessive volume of effort for far too few results</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg02063.html">Re: SUO: Excessive volume of effort for far too few results</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail49.html#02061"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd47.html#02061"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
