<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Irfg, [nggurj D EWFW&#45;WFBEWS" <[nggurj.D.IrfgNWE.furyy.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Mon, 3 Dec 2001 09:09:42 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E4270859B499@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg03460.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg03458.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03464.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd20.html#03460">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg03461.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03459.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail21.html#03460">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<ul>
<li><em>To</em>: <A HREF="mailto:Ontology@ieee.org">Ontology@ieee.org</A></li>
<li><em>Subject</em>: RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</li>
<li><em>From</em>: &quot;West, Matthew R SITI-ITPSIE&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Date</em>: Mon, 3 Dec 2001 14:44:18 +0100 </li>
<li><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org">owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org</A></li>
</ul>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Dear Jim,

See comments below.


Matthew West
Principal Consultant
Shell Information Technology International Limited
Shell Centre, London SE1 7NA, United Kingdom

Tel: +44 20 7934 4490 Other Tel: +44 7796 336538
Email: matthew.r.west@is.shell.com
Internet: <A  HREF="http://www.shell.com">http://www.shell.com</A>


&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: jim.s3@juno.com [<A  HREF="mailto:jim.s3@juno.com">mailto:jim.s3@juno.com</A>]
&gt; Sent: 03 December 2001 02:24
&gt; To: Ontology@ieee.org
&gt; Subject: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Greetings Ontology List subscribers,
&gt; 
&gt;         I hope nobody on this list objects, but Jon Awbery 
&gt; has requested
&gt; a thread be moved to this list.  
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, 02 Dec 2001 12:40:57 -0500 Jon Awbrey &lt;jawbrey@oakland.edu&gt;
&gt; writes:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; ¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; JA = Jon Awbrey
&gt; &gt; JS = Jim Schoening
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 3.  I am prepared to argue that my present lines of 
&gt; contribution have
&gt; &gt;     more pertinence to the Scope &amp; Purpose of the SUO Working Group,
&gt; &gt;     a higher quality overall, and a better rationale on many points
&gt; &gt;     than various parallels in the current Starter Documents.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: 'Pertinence to the Scope and Purpose' is not good enough. 
&gt;  We could
&gt; spend eternity on things that meet this criteria.  We are chartered to
&gt; develop a standards document, not advance the field of upper 
&gt; ontologies. 

MW: True. However, a useful standard is desirable, and discussing what
would help to make a standard more useful is I believe relvant.

&gt; Your 1000+ (I'm guessing) postings have not contributed much of any
&gt; standards words.

MW: True, but much of it does address my point above. The real issue is
I suggest the manner of the contribution and in particular the noise
ratio - though that has improved significantly over recent months.

&gt; 
&gt; JS: You have stated your dislike for both started documents, 
&gt; but have not
&gt; offered much of any specific help in improving them.  In standards
&gt; development, criticisms without suggested improvements are of little
&gt; value.  Also, the fact that you don't like what this group is 
&gt; working on
&gt; does not give you the right to set your own agenda (i.e. conduct
&gt; research) and eat up bandwidth with it.  And the fact that don't think
&gt; the group can succeed without your research work does not give you the
&gt; right to 

MW: Well I think Jon's comments are an elaboration on &quot;If I were going
to Dublin, I wouldn't start from here&quot;. However, he is trying to point
to some place where he thinks you should start from.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: If you believe the group cannot succeed without your 
&gt; research, there
&gt; is a proper way to submit your work.

MW: Well as Jon has said, what he is talking about is not research in
the &quot;novel&quot; sense of hte word, more a bringing together of strands from
a range of disciplines.

&gt;  You should either 
&gt; submit your own
&gt; starter document, or submit comments to the other starter documents.  

MW: I agree that submitting one or a number of discussion documents
- say 5 pages each - would help (note discussion rather than standards).

&gt; But it is not acceptable to conduct this research in this 
&gt; forum without
&gt; any relationship to the work of this group.  Again, it is not 
&gt; enough that
&gt; it relates to the Scope and Purpose.

MW: Well here I think you are wide of the mark. I think that Jon has
a valuable contribution to make. I don't deny that there
are issues in the manner of it though.
&gt; 
&gt; JA:  &gt; 4.  You do not seem to get the fact that I am doing my 
&gt; level best
&gt; &gt;     to accord you the professional service of telling you exactly
&gt; &gt;     how these prospective standards will be judged by the academic,
&gt; &gt;     professional, and user communities with which I am very 
&gt; &gt; familiar.
&gt; &gt;     I simply think that it is better that the Group should hear 
&gt; &gt; about
&gt; &gt;     it now, while there is still time to fix it, rather than waiting
&gt; &gt;     to roundly ridiculed by the first elect body of external experts
&gt; &gt;     to which these inept pretensions of expertise present 
&gt; &gt; themselves.
&gt; &gt;     Hear me now, and believe me later, as I think the line goes.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: Standards groups start with a document and improve it.  

MW: No they don't, or at least not where I come from. For exmaple, in
developing ISO18876 we spent 3 years making sure we understood what we
were doing before we started developing the standard itself, in response
to a requirement set that initiated the work.

&gt; It helps
&gt; little to just criticize it.  You should help to improve one of both
&gt; documents.  If you don't think either are worth your input, you should
&gt; either submit your own starter document, listen quietly, or 
&gt; leave.  You
&gt; should not eat up bandwidth with your research. 

MW: Well bandwidth is a problem, but otherwise I disagree. Jon is trying
to make a positive contribution, but he is not being very successful
because of the manner of the contribution, even given that he has improved
significantly of late (IMHO).
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; 
&gt; JA:  I request that you present
&gt; &gt; reasoned arguments for your so far completely bald objections
&gt; &gt; to the pertinence, the quality, and the rationality of my
&gt; &gt; current contributions, or else cease to assert them.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: I don't question the quality or rationality of your 
&gt; postings.  I have
&gt; explained why they are pertinent.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; JA:  &gt; With respect to procedural issues, the role of research, a 
&gt; &gt; reasonable timeline
&gt; &gt; for the project, and many other issues of that nature, my positions 
&gt; &gt; are quite
&gt; &gt; the same as more seasoned members of this group.  
&gt; 
&gt; JS: The charter rules, which is to develop a standards document, not
&gt; advance the field of ontology.  If certain members don't think this is
&gt; achievable,  they are free to not participate, but they can't 
&gt; change the
&gt; charter to focus on research. 

MW: This is misrepresenting what Jon is doing. He is not creating new
stuff, he is presenting the existing stuff that is (or should be)
relevant. Even I have got that far.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: If members want to do research, I've a couple times 
&gt; offered to help
&gt; set up an IEEE task force, which could become an 'IEEE Technical
&gt; Committee.'  Nobody showed interest.

MW: I don't think more than one show would really help.
&gt; 
&gt; JA:  In these regards, 
&gt; &gt; I request
&gt; &gt; that you quit picking on me -- just because you can -- and start 
&gt; &gt; picking on
&gt; &gt; somebody your own size.
&gt; 
&gt; JS:  You are receiving more guidance than others because you post far
&gt; more messages than anyone else.  If you were to drop back to 
&gt; a much lower
&gt; number, nobody would complain.  

MW: This is a fair point, and I do think that Jon should strive for
further improvement in how he makes his contribution, noting that he
has already shown that he can improve his contribution.

&gt; Others do post the same types 
&gt; of research
&gt; postings as you, but small enough quantities that don't cause 
&gt; a problem. 
&gt; But I have sent guidance to others, and most of them follow 
&gt; it, while you
&gt; do not cooperate.  

MW: I have been trying to point out in this note where I think you
are wrong in your criticisms of Jon. You have been deeming the
content of his contributions innappropriate. You are probably wrong here.
And he has moved to comply (e.g. by stating specifically how it related 
to scope and purpose) which was not what you expected, because you were
(IMHO) attacking the wrong problem. It is the manner of Jon's contribution
that would bear improvement.

&gt; This is why I am pushing this so hard with you.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: Please respond to my points, but please don't twist my words.  
&gt; 
&gt; Jim Schoening
&gt; ________________________________________________________________
&gt; GET INTERNET ACCESS FROM JUNO!
&gt; Juno offers FREE or PREMIUM Internet access for less!
&gt; Join Juno today!  For your FREE software, visit:
&gt; <A  HREF="http://dl.www.juno.com/get/web/">http://dl.www.juno.com/get/web/</A>.
&gt; 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<ul><li><strong>Follow-Ups</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="03464" href="msg03464.html">ONT Re: trying to work</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> Jon Awbrey &lt;jawbrey@oakland.edu&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03461.html">ONT FW: compromise proposal</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03459.html">ONT RE: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03458.html">ONT Re: trying to work</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03464.html">ONT Re: trying to work</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail21.html#03460"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd20.html#03460"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
