<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Irfg, [nggurj D EWFW&#45;WFBEWS" <[nggurj.D.IrfgNWE.furyy.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Tue, 4 Dec 2001 15:52:13 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E42709FCEF53@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg03468.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg03462.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03471.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd20.html#03468">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg03469.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03467.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail21.html#03468">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<ul>
<li><em>To</em>: &quot;Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;,       <A HREF="mailto:Ontology@ieee.org">Ontology@ieee.org</A></li>
<li><em>Subject</em>: RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</li>
<li><em>From</em>: &quot;West, Matthew R SITI-ITPSIE&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Date</em>: Tue, 4 Dec 2001 21:30:29 +0100 </li>
<li><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org">owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org</A></li>
</ul>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Dear Jim,

See responses below.


Matthew West
Principal Consultant
Shell Information Technology International Limited
Shell Centre, London SE1 7NA, United Kingdom

Tel: +44 20 7934 4490 Other Tel: +44 7796 336538
Email: matthew.r.west@is.shell.com
Internet: <A  HREF="http://www.shell.com">http://www.shell.com</A>


&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>]
&gt; Sent: 03 December 2001 18:06
&gt; To: West, Matthew R SITI-ITPSIE; Ontology@ieee.org
&gt; Subject: RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew,
&gt; 
&gt; MW: Well as Jon has said, what he is talking about is not research in
&gt; the &quot;novel&quot; sense of hte word, more a bringing together of 
&gt; strands from
&gt; a range of disciplines.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: I use the term 'research' loosely.  I'm open to using a 
&gt; different term,
&gt; but I think we all know the nature of this type of posting.  
&gt; Others post
&gt; similar stuff, but the volume has not been a problem. 

MW: Personally, I find that both volume and content have improved
over the last month or so. I would agree more improvement is
desirable.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; But it is not acceptable to conduct this research in this 
&gt; &gt; forum without
&gt; &gt; any relationship to the work of this group.  Again, it is not 
&gt; &gt; enough that
&gt; &gt; it relates to the Scope and Purpose.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: Well here I think you are wide of the mark. I think that Jon has
&gt; a valuable contribution to make. I don't deny that there
&gt; are issues in the manner of it though.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: I scanned and counted 1300 postings to SUO.  How much of this has
&gt; resulted in standards words?  If it could be translated into standards
&gt; words, that needs to be done.  If it can't, it's eating 
&gt; bandwidth and not
&gt; contributing.  I'm guessing his work has either advanced the field of
&gt; ontology or built consensus on some topics, which is good 
&gt; research, but
&gt; doesn't belong on the SUO list unless it feeds directly into 
&gt; a standards
&gt; document.  

MW: I clearly and strongly disagree with you about what it will take
to develop a standard that is worth developing. In fact most of Jon's
recent contributions could be cut and paste into a standards document
that documents the background to our work. Statements of fact is
suitable standards material.

&gt; If there were a finite number of research topics 
&gt; that could be
&gt; addressed in the next few years, it would be OK to work 
&gt; through them, but
&gt; there are an infinite number of research topics that will 
&gt; take eternity.

MW: You do Jon a miss-service. He has a finite agenda, that is about
making sure that the fundamentals are correctly addressed.

&gt; There's also an easy alternative: Introduce the topic to the 
&gt; SUO list, then
&gt; move it to the Ontology list, then come back with conclusions 
&gt; in the form of
&gt; standards words. What is wrong with this?

MW: I don't have a problem with that, you may have noticed I suggested
a revamping of the lists to reflect these purposes more appropriately.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; JA:  &gt; 4.  You do not seem to get the fact that I am doing my 
&gt; &gt; level best
&gt; &gt; &gt;     to accord you the professional service of telling you exactly
&gt; &gt; &gt;     how these prospective standards will be judged by the 
&gt; academic,
&gt; &gt; &gt;     professional, and user communities with which I am very 
&gt; &gt; &gt; familiar.
&gt; &gt; &gt;     I simply think that it is better that the Group should hear 
&gt; &gt; &gt; about
&gt; &gt; &gt;     it now, while there is still time to fix it, rather 
&gt; than waiting
&gt; &gt; &gt;     to roundly ridiculed by the first elect body of 
&gt; external experts
&gt; &gt; &gt;     to which these inept pretensions of expertise present 
&gt; &gt; &gt; themselves.
&gt; &gt; &gt;     Hear me now, and believe me later, as I think the line goes.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; JS: Standards groups start with a document and improve it.  
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; MW: No they don't, or at least not where I come from. For exmaple, in
&gt; developing ISO18876 we spent 3 years making sure we understood what we
&gt; were doing before we started developing the standard itself, 
&gt; in response
&gt; to a requirement set that initiated the work.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: I was responding to Jon, who seems to feel it's a contribution to
&gt; criticize a document without offering improvements.  In standards
&gt; development, as you well know, the process (once you have a 
&gt; base document)
&gt; is to offer improvements, not just sit back and criticize.  
&gt; But your are
&gt; technically correct, I should have said, &quot;Once a group has 
&gt; started document,
&gt; it works to improve it.&quot;

MW: I see Jon's contributions as towards a future, rather than current
document.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; It helps
&gt; &gt; little to just criticize it.  You should help to improve one of both
&gt; &gt; documents.  If you don't think either are worth your input, 
&gt; you should
&gt; &gt; either submit your own starter document, listen quietly, or 
&gt; &gt; leave.  You
&gt; &gt; should not eat up bandwidth with your research. 
&gt; 
&gt; MW: Well bandwidth is a problem, but otherwise I disagree. 
&gt; Jon is trying
&gt; to make a positive contribution, but he is not being very successful
&gt; because of the manner of the contribution, even given that he 
&gt; has improved
&gt; significantly of late (IMHO).
&gt; 
&gt; JS: I am in favor of Jon trying your approach.  I think it 
&gt; would reduce
&gt; quanity (which could itself solve the problem) and increase group
&gt; acceptance, but he should still work to get his conclusions 
&gt; into standards
&gt; words. 

MW: I agree with that as a target, but I think you have to understand
that he is at the exploratory stage of his work.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: This is misrepresenting what Jon is doing. He is not creating new
&gt; stuff, he is presenting the existing stuff that is (or should be)
&gt; relevant. Even I have got that far.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: OK, 'research' is the wrong word.  If it is relevant, it should
&gt; sometimes result in standards words. 

MW: I expect that it will, but not yet.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: I have been trying to point out in this note where I think you
&gt; are wrong in your criticisms of Jon. You have been deeming the
&gt; content of his contributions innappropriate. You are probably 
&gt; wrong here.
&gt; And he has moved to comply (e.g. by stating specifically how 
&gt; it related 
&gt; to scope and purpose) which was not what you expected, 
&gt; because you were
&gt; (IMHO) attacking the wrong problem. It is the manner of Jon's 
&gt; contribution
&gt; that would bear improvement.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: It would be good if I were wrong.  Jon, are you willing 
&gt; to try Matthew's
&gt; approach?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Jim&gt; 
&gt; 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03469.html">RE: ONT FW: compromise proposal</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03467.html">ONT FW: Lambek &amp; Scott, 'Higher Order Categorical Logic'</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03462.html">RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03471.html">Re: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail21.html#03468"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd20.html#03468"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
