<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: ONT RE: trying to work -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Irfg, [nggurj D EWFW&#45;WFBEWS" <[nggurj.D.IrfgNWE.furyy.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Wed, 5 Dec 2001 04:21:13 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E42709FCEFFB@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg03474.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>ONT RE: trying to work</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg03463.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03477.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd20.html#03474">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg03475.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03473.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail21.html#03474">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>ONT RE: trying to work</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<ul>
<li><em>To</em>: Jon Awbrey &lt;<A HREF="mailto:jawbrey@oakland.edu">jawbrey@oakland.edu</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Subject</em>: ONT RE: trying to work</li>
<li><em>From</em>: &quot;West, Matthew R SITI-ITPSIE&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Date</em>: Wed, 5 Dec 2001 10:16:21 +0100 </li>
<li><em>Cc</em>: <A HREF="mailto:Ontology@ieee.org">Ontology@ieee.org</A></li>
<li><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org">owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org</A></li>
</ul>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Dear Jon,

By discussion document I mean anything that contributes towards the
development of a standard, but is not standards words. These might
be:

 - statement of requirements
 - standing documents for internal procedures
 - documents providing background theory/approach taken/proposed
   for the development of a standard.

If you want an example of what happens elsewhere, take a look at
the document log for ISO TC184/SC4/WG10. You can find this at:
<A  HREF="http://www.pdtsolutions.co.uk/standard/wg10/index.html">http://www.pdtsolutions.co.uk/standard/wg10/index.html</A>

I suspect you will find that a relatively small number of the
documents are actually standards wording.


Matthew West
Principal Consultant
Shell Information Technology International Limited
Shell Centre, London SE1 7NA, United Kingdom

Tel: +44 20 7934 4490 Other Tel: +44 7796 336538
Email: matthew.r.west@is.shell.com
Internet: <A  HREF="http://www.shell.com">http://www.shell.com</A>


&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Jon Awbrey [<A  HREF="mailto:jawbrey@oakland.edu">mailto:jawbrey@oakland.edu</A>]
&gt; Sent: 04 December 2001 18:01
&gt; To: West, Matthew R SITI-ITPSIE
&gt; Cc: Ontology@ieee.org
&gt; Subject: Re: trying to work
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; ¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew,
&gt; 
&gt; What do you mean by a &quot;discussion document&quot;?
&gt; 
&gt; Jon
&gt; 
&gt; JA = Jon Awbrey
&gt; JS = Jim Schoening
&gt; MW = Matthew West
&gt; 
&gt; JA: I am prepared to argue that my present lines of &gt; 
&gt; contribution have
&gt;     more pertinence to the Scope &amp; Purpose of the SUO Working Group,
&gt;     a higher quality overall, and a better rationale on many points
&gt;     than various parallels in the current Starter Documents.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: 'Pertinence to the Scope and Purpose' is not good enough.
&gt;      We could spend eternity on things that meet this criteria.
&gt;      We are chartered to develop a standards document, not advance
&gt;      the field of upper ontologies.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: True.  However, a useful standard is desirable, and 
&gt; discussing what
&gt;     would help to make a standard more useful is I believe relevant.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: Your 1000+ (I'm guessing) postings have not contributed 
&gt; much of any standards words.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: True, but much of it does address my point above.  The 
&gt; real issue is
&gt;     I suggest the manner of the contribution and in 
&gt; particular the noise
&gt;     ratio -- though that has improved significantly over 
&gt; recent months.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: You have stated your dislike for both started documents, 
&gt; but have not offered much of
&gt;     any specific help in improving them.  In standards 
&gt; development, criticisms without
&gt;     suggested improvements are of little value.  Also, the 
&gt; fact that you don't like
&gt;     what this group is working on does not give you the right 
&gt; to set your own
&gt;     agenda (i.e. conduct research) and eat up bandwidth with 
&gt; it.  And the
&gt;     fact that don't think the group can succeed without your 
&gt; research work
&gt;     does not give you the right to.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: Well I think Jon's comments are an elaboration on
&gt;     &quot;If I were going to Dublin, I wouldn't start from here&quot;.
&gt;     However, he is trying to point to some place where he
&gt;     thinks you should start from.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: If you believe the group cannot succeed without your 
&gt; research, there
&gt;     is a proper way to submit your work.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: Well as Jon has said, what he is talking about is not research
&gt;     in the &quot;novel&quot; sense of hte word, more a bringing together of
&gt;     strands from a range of disciplines.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: You should either submit your own starter document,
&gt;     or submit comments to the other starter documents.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: I agree that submitting one or a number of discussion documents --
&gt;     say 5 pages each -- would help (note discussion rather 
&gt; than standards).
&gt; 
&gt; JS: But it is not acceptable to conduct this research
&gt;     in this forum without any relationship to the work
&gt;     of this group.  Again, it is not enough that it
&gt;     relates to the Scope and Purpose.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: Well here I think you are wide of the mark.
&gt;     I think that Jon has a valuable contribution
&gt;     to make. I don't deny that there are issues in
&gt;     the manner of it though.
&gt; 
&gt; JA: You do not seem to get the fact that I am doing my level best
&gt;     to accord you the professional service of telling you exactly
&gt;     how these prospective standards will be judged by the academic,
&gt;     professional, and user communities with which I am very familiar.
&gt;     I simply think that it is better that the Group should hear about
&gt;     it now, while there is still time to fix it, rather than waiting
&gt;     to be roundly ridiculed by the first elect body of 
&gt; external experts
&gt;     to which these inept pretensions of expertise present themselves.
&gt;     Hear me now, and believe me later, as I think the line goes.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: Standards groups start with a document and improve it.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: No they don't, or at least not where I come from.
&gt;     For exmaple, in developing ISO18876 we spent 3 years
&gt;     making sure we understood what we were doing before we
&gt;     started developing the standard itself, in response
&gt;     to a requirement set that initiated the work.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: It helps little to just criticize it.  You should help to improve
&gt;     one or both documents.  If you don't think either are 
&gt; worth your input,
&gt;     you should either submit your own starter document, 
&gt; listen quietly, or leave.
&gt;     You should not eat up bandwidth with your research.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: Well bandwidth is a problem, but otherwise I disagree.  
&gt; Jon is trying
&gt;     to make a positive contribution, but he is not being very 
&gt; successful
&gt;     because of the manner of the contribution, even given that he has
&gt;     improved significantly of late (IMHO).
&gt; 
&gt; JA: I request that you present reasoned arguments for your so 
&gt; far completely
&gt;     bald objections to the pertinence, the quality, and the 
&gt; rationality of
&gt;     my current contributions, or else cease to assert them.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: I don't question the quality or rationality of your postings.
&gt;     I have explained why they are pertinent.
&gt; 
&gt; JA: With respect to procedural issues, the role of research, 
&gt; a reasonable timeline
&gt;     for the project, and many other issues of that nature, my 
&gt; positions are quite
&gt;     the same as more seasoned members of this group.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: The charter rules, which is to develop a standards document,
&gt;     not advance the field of ontology.  If certain members don't
&gt;     think this is achievable, they are free to not participate,
&gt;     but they can't change the charter to focus on research.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: This is misrepresenting what Jon is doing.  He is not 
&gt; creating new stuff,
&gt;     he is presenting the existing stuff that is (or should 
&gt; be) relevant.
&gt;     Even I have got that far.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: If members want to do research, I've a couple times 
&gt; offered to help set up
&gt;     an IEEE task force, which could become an 'IEEE Technical 
&gt; Committee'.
&gt;     Nobody showed interest.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: I don't think more than one show would really help.
&gt; 
&gt; JA: In these regards, I request that you quit picking on me --
&gt;     just because you can -- and start picking on somebody
&gt;     your own size.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: You are receiving more guidance than others because you 
&gt; post far more
&gt;     messages than anyone else.  If you were to drop back to a 
&gt; much lower
&gt;     number, nobody would complain.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: This is a fair point, and I do think that Jon should 
&gt; strive for further
&gt;     improvement in how he makes his contribution, noting that 
&gt; he has already
&gt;     shown that he can improve his contribution.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: Others do post the same types of research postings as 
&gt; you, but small enough
&gt;     quantities that don't cause a problem.  But I have sent 
&gt; guidance to others,
&gt;     and most of them follow it, while you do not cooperate.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: I have been trying to point out in this note where I 
&gt; think you are wrong
&gt;     in your criticisms of Jon.  You have been deeming the 
&gt; content of his
&gt;     contributions innappropriate.  You are probably wrong 
&gt; here.  And he
&gt;     has moved to comply (e.g. by stating specifically how it related
&gt;     to scope and purpose) which was not what you expected, because
&gt;     you were (IMHO) attacking the wrong problem.  It is the manner
&gt;     of Jon's contribution that would bear improvement.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: This is why I am pushing this so hard with you.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: Please respond to my points, but please don't twist my words.
&gt; 
&gt; ¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤
&gt; 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<ul><li><strong>Follow-Ups</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="03477" href="msg03477.html">ONT Re: trying to work</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> Jon Awbrey &lt;jawbrey@oakland.edu&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03475.html">ONT RE: trying to work</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03473.html">ONT Critique Of Non-Functional Reason</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03463.html">Re: ONT Re: trying to work</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03477.html">ONT Re: trying to work</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail21.html#03474"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd20.html#03474"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
