<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Epubravat, Xnzrf D QSQA[ RQEQ4W" <Xnzrf.EpubravatNznvy1.zbazbhgu.nezl.zvy> -->
<!--X-Date: Wed, 14 Feb 2001 12:45:57 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: 780D366C8FDBD411859D0000F80813713C7493@mail5.monmouth.army.mil -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01036.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg01065.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01050.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd68.html#01036">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01037.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01035.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail70.html#01036">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;'Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)'&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Wed, 14 Feb 2001 12:10:50 -0500</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: &quot;Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Chris,

	You asked:

&gt;You say:
&gt;"     Documents under development by this working group:
&gt;1. Merged Ontology &lt;link address&gt;"

&gt;I presume that this means we are going to have a number of documents
&gt;(describing ontologies) under development. Is this right?

&gt;If so could you clarify how we should go about getting other documents into
&gt;this category (or maybe another category - being considered for input).

This category would be for documents this group is officially working on,
which means they should be within the Scope of this group.  In our current
early stage, it would fine to be working on more than one document, but
eventually we'll need to either downselect of merge the various documents. 
  
&gt;Also if so, could I propose that we include the EPISTLE work that Matthew
&gt;has done. This has the advantage of having been tried and tested for a
while
&gt;(though, as I'm sure Matthew himself will admit, it is far from perfect).
It
&gt;seems to me that it can only add to the SUO's credibility if it includes
&gt;something that has been established in commercial use.

&gt;I expect that when Nicola Guarino's SUO paper is ready, he will want to
&gt;submit it for inclusion. And we would want to include it.

	I would say the key ingredients for submission are:

	a. Copyright release to authorize this IEEE WG to change and
distribute document.

	b. Within Scope of WG

	c. Intent to develop document into final SUO standard, or to merge
it with other documents being worked on or anticipated.

	d. Belief that enough participation can be generated to complete the
effort, to include a volunteer Technical Editor.  

	The group would need to approve the official commencing of work on
any given document, though it can certainly take place via the list on an
unofficial basis.

Jim Schoening


	

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01037.html">SUO: Re: RE: Topic Maps</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01035.html">Re: SUO: RE: Topic Maps</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01065.html">Re: SUO: Re: Policy On Substitutions</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01050.html">SUO: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail70.html#01036"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd68.html#01036"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
