<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: ONT Re: trying to work -->
<!--X-From-R13: Xba Ojoerl <wnjoerlNbnxynaq.rqh> -->
<!--X-Date: Thu, 6 Dec 2001 11:23:23 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: 3C0F9B29.AF9AEE52@oakland.edu -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E42709FCF29D@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg03489.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>ONT Re: trying to work</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:jawbrey@oakland.edu">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg03488.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03448.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd20.html#03489">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg03490.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03488.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail21.html#03489">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>ONT Re: trying to work</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<ul>
<li><em>To</em>: &quot;West, Matthew R SITI-ITPSIE&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Subject</em>: ONT Re: trying to work</li>
<li><em>From</em>: Jon Awbrey &lt;<A HREF="mailto:jawbrey@oakland.edu">jawbrey@oakland.edu</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Date</em>: Thu, 06 Dec 2001 11:22:01 -0500</li>
<li><em>CC</em>: &quot;Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;,       &quot;Ontology (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:ontology@ieee.org">ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>References</em>: &lt;<a href="msg03488.html">DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E42709FCF29D@LONSC0S0038</a>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org">owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org</A></li>
</ul>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤

Matthew,

I'm having to deal off the top of my inbox now,
and so I may have missed previous discussion.
Also, not sure people are really capable
of hearing each other here, and I need
to continue with long-run increments
of progress, so I may appear a bit
scattered, or have to be sporadic.
Maybe things will look different
when I get my health back.

Interspersals infra.

Jon Awbrey

¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤

JS = Jim Schoening
MW = Matthew West

MW: This sounds encouraging.

MW: See comments below.

MW: However, you have frequently suggested that the only sort of document
    that you find acceptable is something that purports to be a standard
    ontology, which doesn't leave those of us that think there are some
    pre-requisites anywhere much to go.

JS: Agreed.  My use of the term &quot;standards words&quot; is too narrow.
    In your other post you gave some examples of pre-standards words:

JS, quoting MW:

    | -- statement of requirements
    | -- standing documents for internal procedures
    | -- documents providing background theory/approach
    |    taken/proposed for the development of a standard.

JS: I agree these are all valid for documents, but not for extended threads.
    We must balance volume with how directly it contributes.  Jon's postings
    are too remote for his volume.  He could post papers or introduce threads,
    but he should not continue the threads on this list.

The future always looks like it is more or less remote,
but it has the darndest funny way of sneaking up on us.

MW: I agree that Jon should prepare and post papers, rather than &quot;slow print&quot;
    them to the list.  I would prefer that from a reading point of view too.

There is an important aspect of the way that I am trying to contribute
my knowledge here that some people do not seem to get yet, although most
of my other off-list dialogue partners do -- folks, by the way, who are too
intimidated by the general tenor of the VIP's conduct on the list to dare the
asking of an innocent question on-list, much to our detriment and our common loss,
I might add -- and this is that my whole present way of working is really dialogic.
I know, it may look like a monologue from the more disengaged points of view, but
it's not, and I get just enough interaction to tell when things have to be said
another way, or a thousand other ways, to get through.  I have recently had
the experience of spending ten years as a hermit in a cave working in near
total isolation on my dissertation, and I can tell you, I am not going
back to that, so get used to it.

MW: I see Jon's contributions as towards a future, rather than current document.

JS: If this were true, he could surely show 'some' early words.

Where is our list of standards words?
Frank Farance made the same complaint,
and I drafted an attempt in response,
but he never replied.  Frankly, it
just seems that we do not even have
the critical mass of expertise that
it takes to do this on a wide front,
no matter what certain folks might
think they are can do in a &quot;let's
pretend we know something about X&quot;
sort of way.  This is premature,
if not immature, and it will only
lead to bringing down severe and
damning criticism on our heads
from the first external review
by any actual expertise group.
I do not imagine myself to be
anything but a generalist here,
but I've been through the ringers
of enough specialized disciplines
to know this much.  It'll happen.

MW: He has shown lots of early words.  The whole Functional Logic thread is early words.

JS: OK, let's take this as an example.
    Let me ask some questions (keeping
    in mind I don't follow Jon's threads).

JS: He should have started out by proposing a draft of
    those words, or writing a paper and asking for review.

MW: Yes, I think this would have been better.

JS: I'm guessing he started the thread and did his ongoing exploration.

No, you guess wrong.

It is really silly to try and judge what you do not read.
Not that you're the only person who does this, of course.
And it is equally silly of me to try and argue with folks
who do not read what they judge.

MW: No. It looks like he had prepared a paper, and then
    broken it up into chunks which he sent to the list.
    I would prefer he sent 5-10 page chunks as PDF files
    with an executive summary e-mail.

JS: Did he wrap up his final version and
    present it for review and acceptance?

MW: No, but this is largely because you give him no place to do it since the
    only documents you have deemed appropriate are ontology standards documents.

Look, I have a set piece of work that bears on the aims of this group.
Many foundational portions of it were developed between 1967 and 1992.
The actual writing of this work into the form of a dissertation in the
field of Systems Engineering was done from 1992 to 2000, with ongoing
cosmetic changes up until the present time.  Over the last year in the
SUO WG I have changed my writing style, which I routinely do whenever
I write a lot, whether programming, prose, or poetry, and I have even
changed my research direction and focus a bit &quot;under the infuence&quot; of
SUO WG norms and goals.  Independently of these developments, one of
my advisors with considerable expertise in software reusability from
within a relational programming paradigm has developed an interest
in description logics and ontological applications.  So I could be
in this for the long haul.

JS: Does it relate to either starter document?

MW: No, it precedes both of them.
    In my categories above it is
    background/theory/approach.

It relates to both of the starter documents to the differential extents
that both of them are still trying to represent their ontologies in KIF,
and KIF in its current form will fail as a representation language, both
on the grounds of its inherent pragmatic inadequacies, and on the grounds
that no one from the mathematical community, at the very least, would ever
try to do use it for any significant task.  We would be far better off just
writing the standard out in plain math/logic monograph style.  I am trying to
help you with that problem, by delivering a new language to you that solves the
fundamental problems in a fundamental way.  The basement is dug, and the building
of the next story is admittedly incomplete, but the fundamental medium is planned
out right for what is probably the first time in history.  (The advertizing group
has requested a #bold statement# for its copy.)

Bold statements make me weary -- I have will have to break here.

Jon Awbrey

JS: If so, did he formally propose it to them and explain how it fits?
    If not, please explain its contribution.

&gt; MW: Jon's paper presents some foundations of logic which he thinks
&gt; are important to set out as the basis for what is to follow. This
&gt; is  important, because as you will already have seen, logic, and
&gt; some of the stuff immediately around it, is not as cut and dried
&gt; as we might like to think. There are choices to be made, and these
&gt; should be made explicitly. As you may conclude from his exchange
&gt; with CM, there is nothing earth shattering here.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: Jon's main contention that this is all leading to is that the
&gt; &quot;big problem&quot; we really face is ontology development, rather than
&gt; a specific ontology, and that we need amongst other things to
&gt; specify and develop tools for this purpose. This would support an
&gt; &quot;enquiry&quot; process which would support the interaction between
&gt; ontology developers to help them resolve issues and move forwards.
&gt; He correctly identifies semiotics (for practical purpose the
&gt; relationships between terms and meanings) as a key element in this.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: The main reason I am bothering to mediate here is that I have
&gt; enough experience from my base standards community to know that he
&gt; is right about these things. If we think we are going to create
&gt; anything significant by hand coding KIF files, we don't understand
&gt; the problem, but that is where we are right now.
&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; JS:  He is welcome to do his exploring on the Ontology list, but it
&gt; &gt; &gt; doesn't belong on the SUO list.  If we met in person, he wouldn't be
&gt; &gt; &gt; permitted to do about a quarter of the talking on these types
&gt; &gt; &gt; of topics.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; MW: This is why I suggested essentially renaming
&gt; &gt;     the ontology list to the development list.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; JS: Jon, would you agree to do your work on a 'development' list if we created done?

¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<ul><li><strong>References</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="03488" href="msg03488.html">RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> &quot;West, Matthew R SITI-ITPSIE&quot; &lt;Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03490.html">ONT Re: Critique Of Non-Functional Reason</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03488.html">RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03488.html">RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03448.html">SUO: RE: Many issues, little focus?</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail21.html#03489"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd20.html#03489"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
