<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: ONT Re: Vote 2001&#45;02: IFF Foundation Ontology -->
<!--X-From-R13: Xba Ojoerl <wnjoerlNbnxynaq.rqh> -->
<!--X-Date: Fri, 17 Aug 2001 12:58:41 &#45;0400 (EDT) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: 3B7D4DC9.B8902A0E@oakland.edu -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: 780D366C8FDBD411859D0000F8081371013C1EE9@mail5.monmouth.army.mil -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg03145.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>ONT Re: Vote 2001-02: IFF Foundation Ontology</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:jawbrey@oakland.edu">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg03203.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03094.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd26.html#03145">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg03146.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03144.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail28.html#03145">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>ONT Re: Vote 2001-02: IFF Foundation Ontology</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<ul>
<li><em>To</em>: Jim Schoening &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Subject</em>: ONT Re: Vote 2001-02: IFF Foundation Ontology</li>
<li><em>From</em>: Jon Awbrey &lt;<A HREF="mailto:jawbrey@oakland.edu">jawbrey@oakland.edu</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Date</em>: Fri, 17 Aug 2001 13:00:57 -0400</li>
<li><em>CC</em>: Generic Ontology Group &lt;<A HREF="mailto:ontology@ieee.org">ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>References</em>: &lt;780D366C8FDBD411859D0000F8081371013C1EE9@mail5.monmouth.army.mil&gt;</li>
<li><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org">owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org</A></li>
</ul>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤

Jim,

In light of recent discussions on the list --
though I still wish that there would be more
discussion and more online exposition by its
author -- I believe that I can now convert my
abstention on the IFF Found Ontology to a &quot;yes&quot;.

Just to be perfectly clear,
my vote on IFF is now &quot;yes&quot;.

Yours truly,

Jon Awbrey

¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤

Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Jon,
&gt;         YOur vote has been recorded.
&gt; Jim
&gt; 
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; Subj:  Re: FW: Vote 2001-02: IFF Foundation Ontology
&gt; From:  Jon Awbrey [<A  HREF="mailto:jawbrey@oakland.edu">mailto:jawbrey@oakland.edu</A>]
&gt; Sent:  Friday, August 10, 2001 10:06 PM
&gt;   To:  Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; 
&gt; ¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤
&gt; 
&gt; Jim, I abstain, on account of what I believe has been
&gt; insufficient preliminary discussion and exposition of
&gt; this proposal on the list.
&gt; 
&gt; Jon Awbrey
&gt; 
&gt; ¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤
&gt; 
&gt; Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; ATTN Voting Members,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I originally sent this to the SUO list,
&gt; &gt; but since some of you don't subscribe or
&gt; &gt; monitor all messages, here is a direct message.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Jim Schoening
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; Subj:  SUO: Vote 2001-02: IFF Foundation Ontology
&gt; &gt; From:  Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; &gt; Sent:  Thursday, August 09, 2001 10:47 PM
&gt; &gt;   To:  standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; ATTN Voting Members of the SUO WG,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 1. Please immediately acknowledge receipt of this email letter ballot.
&gt; &gt;    If I do not receive such acknowledgement within 5 days, I will
&gt; &gt;    contact you again.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We want to make sure all voting members receive this ballot.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 2. This message is to ballot the question, as proposed by Robert Kent:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &quot;Should the IEEE P1600.1 Standard Upper Ontology Working Group commence work
&gt; &gt; on the IFF Foundation Ontology version 1.0 [July 20, 2001] posted at:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; <A  HREF="http://suo.ieee.org/Kent-IFF.pdf">http://suo.ieee.org/Kent-IFF.pdf</A>
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; with the intent of developing it into the final SUO document?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Note 1: See the background information below for more details.
&gt; &gt; Note 2: This may be one of several candidate documents, any one of
&gt; &gt; which may become the final SUO document, or may be combined and aligned
&gt; &gt; into the final SUO document via the consensus building process.  No one
&gt; &gt; candidate document will have preferential status relative to the others.&quot;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 3. By Thursday, August 30, 2001, please vote YES (comments optional),
&gt; &gt;    NO (comments required), or ABSTAIN (comments optional).  Votes should
&gt; &gt;    be sent directly to me (to reduce list traffic), but please post your
&gt; &gt;    comments directly to the list so they have a chance to be resolved.
&gt; &gt;    Comments sent to me will be forwarded to the SUO list.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 4. Per the SUO Chair's interpretation of Robert's Rules of Order
&gt; &gt;    (with input from members of the SUO P&amp;P Subgroup), the following
&gt; &gt;    items will be followed:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; This vote will pass if it receives a majority of YES vs. NO votes.
&gt; &gt; ABSTAINS and non-votes are not counted in determining majority.
&gt; &gt; The Chair may vote to make or break a tie.  As all voting members
&gt; &gt; will have received and acknowledged receipt of this ballot and will
&gt; &gt; therefore have an opportunity to vote, there will be no quorum of votes
&gt; &gt; required for this motion to be determined.  None of these items are
&gt; &gt; considered to be changes to existing policies and procedures,
&gt; &gt; only interpretations.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 5. Non-voting participants are welcome to express opinions
&gt; &gt;    and submit comments to the SUO list.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 6. Background:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; a. The purpose of this vote is to determine the level of consensus
&gt; &gt;    we have for focusing work on this document.  In other words,
&gt; &gt;    we need to decide if we are going to go down this path or not.
&gt; &gt;    A working group may decide to work on more than one document.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; b. The primary purpose of this vote is NOT to propose improvements
&gt; &gt;    to the document, unless they are major enough for you to vote
&gt; &gt;    against focusing work on this document.  However, such general
&gt; &gt;    improvement comments are welcome and will be resolved (but not
&gt; &gt;    unless and until the vote passes, since there would be no sense
&gt; &gt;    resolving comments if the group does not want to proceed with
&gt; &gt;    this document.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; c. If this vote passes, this document will change from being the work
&gt; &gt;    (and under the control) of a group of individuals to being the work
&gt; &gt;    (and under the control) of the SUO WG.  A Technical Editor will be
&gt; &gt;    appointed or elected, who will incorporate WG-approved changes into the
&gt; &gt;    document.  This does not require frequent formal votes for every change.
&gt; &gt;    A better approach for daily or weekly updates is to develop consensus
&gt; &gt;    by resolving objections, as we did when revising the Scope and Purpose.
&gt; &gt;    In other words, (1) the Technical Editor leads the discussion by processing
&gt; &gt;    the issues and suggestions;  (2) the issues/suggestions identify proposed
&gt; &gt;    additions, changes, or deletions to the wording in the document;
&gt; &gt;    (3) the Technical Editor asks the WG for any objections.  Items
&gt; &gt;    that do not have clear consensus would be accumulated for later,
&gt; &gt;    more formal processing, i.e., the proposer of the issue/suggestion
&gt; &gt;    is responsible for making a formal proposal (with a WG vote) for
&gt; &gt;    the proposed change.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Jim Schoening
&gt; &gt; Chair, SUO WG
&gt; 
&gt; ¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤
¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03146.html">ONT Re: Inquiry Into Inquiry</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03144.html">ONT Re: Manifolds Of Sensuous Impressions (MOSI's)</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03203.html">ONT Re: Inquiry Into Information</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03094.html">ONT Re: Differential Logic &amp; Dynamic Systems</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail28.html#03145"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd26.html#03145"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
