<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: Re: Violation of Process -->
<!--X-From-R13: Quevf Bnegevqtr <puevf_cnegevqtrNpfv.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Mon, 26 Mar 2001 11:15:10 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: NCBBIJEKHAFJOCJJCAGNMEFCDFAA.chris_partridge@csi.com -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: 3ABF5990.7B67AEED@oakland.edu -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01870.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: Re: Violation of Process</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:chris_partridge@csi.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg01867.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01871.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd51.html#01870">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01871.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01869.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail53.html#01870">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: Re: Violation of Process</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: Re: Violation of Process</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: Chris Partridge &lt;<A HREF="mailto:chris_partridge@csi.com">chris_partridge@csi.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Mon, 26 Mar 2001 17:43:07 +0200</LI>
<LI><em>Cc</em>: &quot;Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;,       <A HREF="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">skydog@pacbell.net</A>, Jon Awbrey &lt;<A HREF="mailto:jawbrey@oakland.edu">jawbrey@oakland.edu</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Importance</em>: Normal</LI>
<LI><em>In-reply-to</em>: &lt;<A HREF="msg01867.html">3ABF5990.7B67AEED@oakland.edu</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: Chris Partridge &lt;<A HREF="mailto:chris_partridge@csi.com">chris_partridge@csi.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Jim,

It is such a rare occurrence that I both understand and agree with what Jon
Awbrey says that I feel obliged to respond to his email.

I can appreciate how difficult it is to get a disparate group of people to
agree to anything - but I do feel that maybe things are going awry here.

As far as I can make out almost all of the main contributors to the list
have suggested that we need to find some way to include a variety of working
papers, including the Teknowledge (Daimler-Chrysler Merger) Paper.

It feels to me (and obviously to others) that the way this is progressing is
one which seems to - for whatever reason - give the Teknowledge effort a
privileged status and this cannot be good motivation for the non-Teknowledge
people.

If the purpose of this group is to give some kind of 'official status' to
work that is being done by Teknowledge than it would save everyone time if
this was acknowledged up front - and, if not, for this also to be made
clear.

So whatever one may think of Bob's nit-picking over technicalities (sorry
Bob ;-) ), I think his suggestion that:

&gt; We declare the Teknowledge Merged
&gt; Ontology to be one of the documents being worked own by the Working Group
&gt; (and Ian its editor).  Any member may post other documents to the list of
&gt; documents being worked on by this WG.  The member who posts the document
&gt; will be presumptively the editor or may name one by general consent of
&gt; the WG.  Objections will be resolved by a vote.  All documents will be
&gt; posted in the same place and enjoy the same status.  None will have
&gt; precedence over others.

I certainly vote for this - in fact, I thought it had been all but agreed.
In fact, you said as such in a reply to a previous email by me on this
matter - I have included a copy of it at the end of this email. It might
also be an idea to change the name - though perhaps not to 'Daimler-Chrysler
Merger'!  And these actions should clear the air on this matter.

BTW - Jon, people are more likely to read your replies if they are posted at
the beginning of long emails rather than the end - however aesthetically
unpleasing this may be.

Regards,
Chris


-----Original Message-----
From: owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org
[<A  HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org]On">mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org]On</A> Behalf Of Jon Awbrey
Sent: 26 March 2001 17:01
To: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
Cc: Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail); 'skydog@pacbell.net'
Subject: SUO: Re: Violation of Process



Jim Schoening wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Bob,
&gt;
&gt; I have sought, received, and acted upon guidance from our next higher
body.
&gt; If you disagree, you are free to appeal these actions up the chain.  There
&gt; is nothing more we can resolve at this level.   There is no possible way
&gt; this group can conduct an email ballot for every action.  There is no
&gt; reason to do so when only a very small number of people object to
&gt; a given action.
&gt;
&gt; Jim Schoening
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From:  Robert Grayson Spillers
&gt; Sent:  Sunday, March 25, 2001 10:31 PM
&gt;   To:  Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt;   Cc:  Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)
&gt; Subj:  Violation of process
&gt;
&gt; All,
&gt; There is a simple but important principle here.
&gt; Is this Working Group governed by open and democratic
&gt; processes or not?  The chair asked for general consent.
&gt; He did not receive it.  No legitimate action may be taken
&gt; by the chair on this issue.   He has no authority to make
&gt; this appointment;  it is not an official action of this
&gt; Working Group.   (I have previously stated that I have
&gt; no objection to taking the same action informally.)
&gt;
&gt; Robert's Rules of Order are clear on this point.
&gt;
&gt; | Article VIII - Vote, Section 48  Motions requiring more than a Majority
Vote
&gt; |
&gt; | General Consent or Unanimous Vote. ... (last sentence of the paragraph)
&gt; | One negative vote defeats a motion to make a vote unanimous, as a single
&gt; | objection defeats a request for general consent.  (emphasis added)
&gt;
&gt; In private communications to me, Jim has asserted that he has broad power
&gt; to do what he thinks best, does not recognize my objection to this action
&gt; and is not bound by Robert's Rules.  One may agree or disagree with my
&gt; objection, but is was timely and clearly stated (however, the simple
&gt; assertion "I object" is sufficient).
&gt;
&gt; In another circumstance Jim has asserted that since there were only
&gt; two objections, those were not enough.  He seems to think that he has
&gt; the right to determine if objections meet his own (unstated) test of
&gt; reasonableness and how many objections are enough.
&gt;
&gt; Why is "formal or official" action objectionable
&gt; when "informal or unofficial" action is not?
&gt;
&gt; It gives the Teknowledge Merged Ontology a privileged ("official") status
&gt; that other ontologies do not enjoy.  (No, I do not have another ontology
&gt; that I plan to offer anytime soon - perhaps never.)  There is a simple
&gt; compromise that will resolve this issue:  Declare the Teknowledge Merged
&gt; Ontology to be one of the documents being worked own by the Working Group
&gt; (and Ian its editor).  Any member may post other documents to the list of
&gt; documents being worked on by this WG.  The member who posts the document
&gt; will be presumptively the editor or may name one by general consent of
&gt; the WG.  Objections will be resolved by a vote.  All documents will be
&gt; posted in the same place and enjoy the same status.  None will have
&gt; precedence over others.
&gt;
&gt; If the chair does not act to resolve this issue,
&gt; I will make a formal motion that incorporates the
&gt; process outlined above.  This will require a vote.
&gt;
&gt; Bob
&gt;
&gt; "Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I" wrote:
&gt;
&gt; All,
&gt;
&gt; As Ian Niles is the only volunteer for the position of Technical Editor
&gt; for the Merged Ontology document, and as there is only one objection to
&gt; his selection (from Bob Spillers), Ian Niles is hereby selected for this
&gt; position.
&gt;
&gt; Jim Schoening
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From:  Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; Sent:  Friday, March 16, 2001 8:18 PM
&gt;   To:  Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)
&gt; Subj:  SUO: Technical Editor for Merged Ontology
&gt;
&gt; SUO,
&gt;
&gt; Ian Niles is the only person to volunteer to serve as Technical Editor
&gt; for the Merged Ontology.  (Anyone surprised?)  Are there any objections
&gt; to him serving in this position?
&gt;
&gt; Jim Schoening

¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤

Jim,

I try to maintain my sense of humor.
Do have I have to start referring
to this "Merged Ontology" as the
"Daimler-Chrysler Merger Ontology"?

If there is anything that is abundantly evident from the
abundance of discussion that we have here, it is the lack
of interest that most participants have in this putative MO.
As long as the officiators of this process respect the sense
of the group concerns and their collectively recognized results,
then nobody has to worry about procedural monkey-business and the
risk of having the semblance of their sacred honor being railroaded.
Do you really feel like you are achieving the aim of this spirit with
these sorts of actions, in effect, laying down the letter of the law,
even the letter of which, by the way, seems to be a matter of dispute?
I think it is pretty obvious that no one wants to act in any way that
would block Ian's personal inquiry, or his company's development of
their products, but is it really fair to exploit the good will of
others against their own several interests?  Do we really want
to send this craft into ontology space with this much vaseline
on its lenses and mirrors, with its current merger of english
and metric units kludged into its design, and with a panoply
of o-rings that have not been tested at this temperature,
just to beat some corporate-political deadline?

Respectfully Inquired,

Jon Awbrey

¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤


Chris,

	You asked:

&gt;You say:
&gt;"     Documents under development by this working group:
&gt;1. Merged Ontology &lt;link address&gt;"

&gt;I presume that this means we are going to have a number of documents
&gt;(describing ontologies) under development. Is this right?

&gt;If so could you clarify how we should go about getting other documents into
&gt;this category (or maybe another category - being considered for input).

This category would be for documents this group is officially working on,
which means they should be within the Scope of this group.  In our current
early stage, it would fine to be working on more than one document, but
eventually we'll need to either downselect of merge the various documents.

&gt;Also if so, could I propose that we include the EPISTLE work that Matthew
&gt;has done. This has the advantage of having been tried and tested for a
while
&gt;(though, as I'm sure Matthew himself will admit, it is far from perfect).
It
&gt;seems to me that it can only add to the SUO's credibility if it includes
&gt;something that has been established in commercial use.

&gt;I expect that when Nicola Guarino's SUO paper is ready, he will want to
&gt;submit it for inclusion. And we would want to include it.

	I would say the key ingredients for submission are:

	a. Copyright release to authorize this IEEE WG to change and
distribute document.

	b. Within Scope of WG

	c. Intent to develop document into final SUO standard, or to merge
it with other documents being worked on or anticipated.

	d. Belief that enough participation can be generated to complete the
effort, to include a volunteer Technical Editor.

	The group would need to approve the official commencing of work on
any given document, though it can certainly take place via the list on an
unofficial basis.

Jim Schoening





</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<ul><li><strong>References</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="01867" href="msg01867.html">SUO: Re: Violation of Process</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> Jon Awbrey &lt;jawbrey@oakland.edu&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01871.html">SUO: RE: Violation of process</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01869.html">Re: SUO: SUO KIF syntax and semantics and a basic ontology</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01867.html">SUO: Re: Violation of Process</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01871.html">SUO: RE: Violation of process</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail53.html#01870"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd51.html#01870"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
