<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: Revised Call for Vote on Merged Ontology -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Irfg, [nggurj [D EEW&#45;UDSO&#45;GY" <[nggurj.D.IrfgNvf.furyy.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Fri, 19 Jan 2001 04:44:23 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E42706E7A2D5@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg00458.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: Revised Call for Vote on Merged Ontology</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg00459.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg00456.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd79.html#00458">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg00459.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg00457.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail81.html#00458">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: Revised Call for Vote on Merged Ontology</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;,       &quot;Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: Revised Call for Vote on Merged Ontology</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Fri, 19 Jan 2001 10:05:57 +0100</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Dear Jim,

I still vote no.

See below for reasons.

Regards  
      Matthew
============================================
Matthew West
Operations &amp; Asset Management
Shell Services International
H3229, Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA, UK.
Tel: +44 207 934 4490 Fax: 7929 
Mobile: +44 7796 336538
E-mail: Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com
<A  HREF="http://www.shellservices.com/">http://www.shellservices.com/</A>
============================================

&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>]
&gt; Sent: 18 January 2001 12:03
&gt; To: Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)
&gt; Subject: SUO: Revised Call for Vote on Merged Ontology
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; SUO Participants,
&gt; 
&gt; 1. Since the prior vote had a variety of problems, it is 
&gt; amended as follows
&gt; to focus on the key question.  
&gt; 
&gt; 2. If you have already cast a vote (and received 
&gt; acknowledgement) you don't
&gt; need to vote again, unless you wish to change your vote or comments.
&gt; However, this is an open list and all are welcome to post or 
&gt; repost their
&gt; opinions.
&gt; 
&gt; 3. This message is a call for a vote on the question:
&gt; 
&gt;                 	Should the IEEE Standard Upper Ontology Working
&gt; Group
&gt;                 	commence work on the Merged Ontology as 
&gt; posted by 
&gt; 			Ian Niles with the intent of attempting 
&gt; to develop 
&gt; 			it into a final standards document?

MW: Then current document is sufficently far from being a start point for
development into a final standards document, that I will be surprised if any
present content makes it into a final standards document that I would be
prepared to use or endorse.

MW: This is not to denigrate what Ian Niles has done, it is just a measure
of how far we have to go.

MW: Another point is that I do not think this is the first document we
should be developing as a standard. At this stage we should be focussing on
methodology, with any attempts at ontology being primarily to evaluate and
develop the methodology. I am pleased to see that some of this is starting
to happen, but these are desperately early days.
&gt; 
&gt; 4. Background:  If this vote passes, this document will 
&gt; change from being
&gt; the work (and under the control) of a group of individuals to 
&gt; being the work
&gt; (and under the control) of the SUO WG.  A Technical Editor 
&gt; will need to be
&gt; appointed or elected, who will need group approval before 
&gt; making changes.
&gt; This does not require frequent formal votes for every change. A better
&gt; approach for daily or weekly updates is to develop consensus 
&gt; by resolving
&gt; objections, as we did when revising the Scope and Purpose.  
&gt; In other words,
&gt; the editor posts a suggested change and asks for any 
&gt; objections. Items that
&gt; do not have clear consensus would be accumulated.  Then, 
&gt; every 3-6 months
&gt; the group could have a formal vote on what would be the next 'Working
&gt; Draft.' Comments would be submitted and resolved before 
&gt; approval as the next
&gt; Working Draft.

MW: This level of control is not warranted at this stage, simply because the
level of change that will be required is so gross. I am much happier with
the current situation until we get a document where the level of change is
likely to be modest.
&gt; 
&gt; 5. The purpose of this vote is to determine the level of 
&gt; consensus we have
&gt; for focusing work on this document.  In other words, we need 
&gt; to decide if we
&gt; are going to go down this path or not.  A working group may 
&gt; decide to work
&gt; on more than one document, so anyone else is free to submit one.

MW: This is a red herring. We can focus on this document without putting it
under formal control or committing to develop it into a standard. I need to
see a lot more improvement before I would be prepared to make any
commitment.
&gt; 
&gt; 6. The primary purpose of this vote is NOT to propose 
&gt; improvements to the
&gt; document, unless they are major enough for you to vote 
&gt; against focusing work
&gt; on this document.  However, such general improvement comments 
&gt; are welcome
&gt; and will be resolved (but not unless and until the vote 
&gt; passes.  There would
&gt; be no sense in resolving comments if the group does not want 
&gt; to proceed with
&gt; this document.).
&gt; 
&gt; 7. Since we are still in the process of establishing official 
&gt; voting rights,
&gt; I suggest we first conduct this as an unofficial straw poll, such that
&gt; anyone can cast a vote.  After resolving all comments, if 
&gt; consensus is not
&gt; clear, we will have the option of conducting a formal vote 
&gt; (once voting
&gt; rights are established).
&gt; 
&gt; 8. Your options for voting are YES (comments optional), NO (comments
&gt; required), or ABSTAIN (comments optional).
&gt; 
&gt; 9. You may send your votes either to me or to this reflector.
&gt; 
&gt; 10. Please vote by Feb 1, 2001.
&gt; 
&gt; Jim Schoening
&gt; Chair, SUO WG
&gt; 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00459.html">SUO: RE: RE: SUO Best Practices</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00457.html">RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg00459.html">SUO: RE: RE: SUO Best Practices</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg00456.html">SUO: RE: SUO Best Practices</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail81.html#00458"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd79.html#00458"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
