<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for TechnicalEditor -->
<!--X-From-R13: Dboreg Uenlfba Ecvyyref <fxlqbtNcnporyy.arg> -->
<!--X-Date: Wed, 21 Feb 2001 01:07:20 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: 3A93565D.379DFC46@postoffice.pacbell.net -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: EC943C5D0768D311AF8A00805F85B83EF83074@master.aihw.gov.au -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01165.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for TechnicalEdi</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg01162.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01174.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd67.html#01165">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01166.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01164.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail67.html#01165">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for TechnicalEditor</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;Horn, Graham&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for TechnicalEditor</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: Robert Grayson Spillers &lt;<A HREF="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">skydog@pacbell.net</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Tue, 20 Feb 2001 21:47:10 -0800</LI>
<LI><em>Cc</em>: &quot;'<A HREF="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">skydog@pacbell.net</A>'&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:IMCEAMAILTO-skydog%2B40pacbell%2B2Enet@aihw.gov.au">IMCEAMAILTO-skydog+40pacbell+2Enet@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;,       &quot;'Josiah Lee Auspitz'&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:lee@textwise.com">lee@textwise.com</A>&gt;,       &quot;Niles Teknowledge Ian (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:iniles@teknowledge.com">iniles@teknowledge.com</A>&gt;,       &quot;Schoening CECOM DCSC4I James (E-mail)&quot;&lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;,       &quot;Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;,       &quot;Kent E. Robert (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:rekent@ontologos.org">rekent@ontologos.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>References</em>: &lt;<A HREF="msg01162.html">EC943C5D0768D311AF8A00805F85B83EF83074@master.aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: Robert Grayson Spillers &lt;<A HREF="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">skydog@pacbell.net</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Hi Graham,
Many, probably most, of the people who voted believe Ian's work is useful and
hope he will continue it.   Some are willing to help directly and many are
willing to offer critiques.  The problem I have with this is "official" status.
Any number of ontology's may be posted to the web page as something the WG is
considering, members are enhancing or refining, etc. as long as it is clear that
it is only one of (possibly) many and enjoys no privileged  or "official"
status.

Although this work will undoubtedly be useful in the later stages of upper level
ontological development, I (and others) do not believe it can be the basis for
such an ontology.   The reasons for this view have been previously stated.

I do not wish  it to appear this approach (or any other) is one that has been
formally chosen by the WG.  I do not object to the proposed actions on an
informal basis and do not see any benefit to the WG that can be derived from a
characterization of the proposed actions as formally taken or official.  Later,
if and when a different approach is offered, the new approach does not bear the
burden of objections about changing the focus or otherwise challenging
prevailing orthodoxy.

I think I am very easy to please in this regard.  Just do what you want to do,
but do it  informally.  Do not characterize it as the result of a decision
formally taken by the WG.  You will get the same result.

Regarding the issues Lee Auspitz raised particularly those about resolving
outstanding issues and reaching consensus, I agree and will have more to say
later.

After this situation is resolved, I will offer for discussion a suggestion on
voting rules.  If a general consensus develops, I will move for a formal vote on
adoption.

Bob



"Horn, Graham" wrote:

&gt; Hi Lee and Rob (Skydog),
&gt;         .                       While I understand where you're coming from,
&gt; isn't it better to just get on with it at this stage?
&gt;
&gt;         .       Yes, I have problems with the voting method, too. However, I
&gt; feel the later approval stages is the time to really address them.
&gt;
&gt;         .       Personally, I believe the call for a vote, and the way it
&gt; was done was a mistake, but even Jim has apologised for that.
&gt;
&gt;         .       Many of us agree Ian's work is worthwhile. Matthew is
&gt; prepared to contribute to it, including scoping and technical documentation.
&gt; Ian is prepared to take on board comments and criticisms, and rectify
&gt; problem areas and faulty portions.
&gt;
&gt;         .       Meanwhile, Robert Kent is working on a new project that may
&gt; be of relevance to the overall effort.
&gt;
&gt;         .       Where's the problem?
&gt;
&gt; Cheers                                  Graham Horn
&gt; National Data Standards Unit
&gt; Australian Institute of Health and Welfare
&gt; ================================================
&gt; Phone:          02.6244.1094
&gt; Fax:            02.6244.1199
&gt; E­mail:         Graham.Horn@aihw.gov.au &lt;<A  HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: skydog@pacbell.net [<A  HREF="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">mailto:skydog@pacbell.net</A>]
&gt; Sent: Wednesday, February 21, 2001 11:50 AM
&gt; To: Josiah Lee Auspitz
&gt; Cc: Ian Niles; 'Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I'; Standard-Upper-Ontology
&gt; (E-mail)
&gt; Subject: Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for
&gt; TechnicalEdit or
&gt;
&gt; Jim,
&gt; I share Lee's concerns regarding these issues.
&gt; However I wish to discuss issues about the vote itself and what, if
&gt; anything, it means. It is not clear from Robert's Rules of Order that the
&gt; vote should be counted by the method you used - particularly how the ABSTAIN
&gt; votes were counted. It is a possible interpretation - Robert's calls for
&gt; counting of all the votes cast and determining a majority of the YES vs NO
&gt; votes with blank votes not counted. In this circumstance is an ABSTAIN vote
&gt; a blank vote? Since it requires comments, I think it is not a blank vote.
&gt; Reasonable people can disagree, but it is not clear how the rule should be
&gt; applied.
&gt; It is unwise to wait until the vote is taken to announce the method and
&gt; authority used to determine the results.
&gt; Robert's rules were not designed for this sort of vote and the
&gt; interpretation of this particular issue is murky. Clearly most standards
&gt; efforts strive for a broad based consensus and usually require 75% of those
&gt; eligible to vote (effectively a quorum) and 75% of those actually voting.
&gt; ABSTAIN whether counted as NO or not does apply to the calculation of 75% of
&gt; those actually voting. (In your call for a vote ABSTAIN was listed as a
&gt; possible voting choice with attendant requirements - i.e. comments
&gt; required.)
&gt; Regardless of how the vote was counted, other provisions of Robert's Rules
&gt; were not observed. In particular the making of motions and call for a vote
&gt; on the initiative of the chair. I do recall someone raising a point of
&gt; order.
&gt; This vote was then characterized as a "straw vote" and not an "official"
&gt; action of the group. I have no problem with an expression of opinion. I do
&gt; have a problem if the chair then announces his "Proposed Conclusions and
&gt; Actions" as a result of the "straw vote". It appears to be an official
&gt; action of the WG.
&gt; Reference to "a" or "one" unofficial document being worked on by some
&gt; members of the WG, more accurately reflects the situation. It is Niles
&gt; (Teknowledge?) work and he is completely in charge of how it proceeds. If he
&gt; agrees to be bound by the consensus of the WG and do the work of technical
&gt; editor, I applaud him - it is very useful work. An "official" appointment as
&gt; "technical editor" is unnecessary and inappropriate. It appears to put a
&gt; stamp on something that has not been formally agreed to. I have no objection
&gt; to informal arrangements.
&gt; Once again I wish to point out that I believe this vote to be unnecessary
&gt; and divisive.
&gt; In your note of 2/13/01 titled " SUO: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from
&gt; Vote" you asked if there were any objections. I object.
&gt; Bob
&gt;
&gt; Josiah Lee Auspitz wrote:
&gt; Jim,
&gt; Maybe you or some ome of the other experts in IEEE procedure in our ranks
&gt; could clarify what is going on here.
&gt; First you posted several topics as needing consensus before we proceed. What
&gt; is the status of the consensus on these topics? Does it warrant plunging
&gt; ahead before developing a greater consensus? I strongly think not.
&gt; Second, you responded to Graham Horn that it was wrong for a single
&gt; organization, no matter how large and influential, to claim multiple votes.
&gt; Yet of the 11 Yes votes I count at least three from Teknowledge just the
&gt; number needed to assure a majority. Wasn't there some celebrated case in
&gt; IEEE involving bloc voting by a single company (as opposed to individualized
&gt; participation in the case of the Boeing participants)? [This is the kind of
&gt; problem I tried to suggest in noting the limitations of the "material
&gt; interest" criterion for the peculiar character of the SUO.]
&gt; Of course this is only a straw vote, and everybody good humoredly followed
&gt; your request for it, your revision of it, your launching of discussion of
&gt; the comments, and now your declaration that we can put it all behind us on
&gt; the basis of Roberts Rules of Order. Before following this next turn I think
&gt; it would be prudent to ask you to summarize the status of consensus on the
&gt; discussion points you proposed and to assure that the agreement on them is
&gt; sufficient to make it productive to plunge onward. Otherwise, the next round
&gt; of reviews will not be more favorable than this round, or you may find
&gt; active participation limited to the point of diminishing legitimacy. The
&gt; array of talents on this list is very impressive for the job at hand, and
&gt; good advice has been proffered by seasoned hands. It would be a pity to see
&gt; all this squandered.
&gt; Lee
&gt; Josiah Lee Auspitz
&gt; lee@textwise.com
&gt; 17 Chapel Street
&gt; Somerville, MA 02144
&gt; 617-628-6228
&gt; fax -9441
&gt; Please send attachments pasted within text or in ASCII
&gt; Plain Text non-proprietary software.
&gt; On Tue, 20 Feb 2001, Ian Niles wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi Jim,
&gt; &gt; I hereby volunteer for the role of Technical Editor of the Merged
&gt; &gt; Ontology document.
&gt;
&gt; &gt; -Ian
&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; &gt; From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; &gt; &gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>
&gt; &lt;<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt; ]
&gt; &gt; &gt; Sent: Friday, February 16, 2001 7:11 PM
&gt; &gt; &gt; To: Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)
&gt; &gt; &gt; Subject: SUO: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Technical
&gt; Editor
&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; SUO:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; As there have been no objections to the below proposed
&gt; &gt; &gt; conclusions
&gt; &gt; &gt; and proposed actions, they are considered adopted.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Congratulations, Ian,
&gt; &gt; &gt; Adam, and all those who have contributed to the Merged Ontology.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; We now need to select a Technical Editor for this
&gt; &gt; &gt; document, via an
&gt; &gt; &gt; open and fair process. I would now like to issue a 'Call
&gt; &gt; &gt; for Volunteers'
&gt; &gt; &gt; for the position of Technical Editor of the Merged Ontology document.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Please respond to me and/or this list by Feb 23rd, or if this
&gt; &gt; &gt; is not enough
&gt; &gt; &gt; time, ask for an extension.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Jim Schoening
&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; &gt; From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; &gt; &gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>
&gt; &lt;<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt; ]
&gt; &gt; &gt; Sent: Tuesday, February 13, 2001 6:53 PM
&gt; &gt; &gt; To: 'Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)'
&gt; &gt; &gt; Subject: SUO: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; SUO,
&gt; &gt; &gt; Final vote results on Merged Ontology (see ballot question
&gt; &gt; &gt; below) are:
&gt; &gt; &gt; YES = 11
&gt; &gt; &gt; NO = 9
&gt; &gt; &gt; ABSTAIN = 4
&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; YES votes were from: John Thompson, Adam Pease, John Velman,
&gt; &gt; &gt; Graham Horn,
&gt; &gt; &gt; Roberto Bordogna, Ian Niles, Douglas McDavid, John Sowa,
&gt; &gt; &gt; Fredrick Chase,
&gt; &gt; &gt; Frank Farance, Jay Halcomb.
&gt; &gt; &gt; NO votes were from: Matthew West, Chris Partridge, Robert
&gt; &gt; &gt; Kent, Stefano
&gt; &gt; &gt; Borgo, John Dickert, Francis McCabe, Lee Auspitz, Bob
&gt; &gt; &gt; Spillers, Chris Angus.
&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; ABSTAINs were from: Pat Hayes, Michael Uschold, Sofia Pinto, Nicola
&gt; &gt; &gt; Guarino
&gt; &gt; &gt; Please correct me if I have tabulated your vote incorrectly.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Observations:
&gt; &gt; &gt; 1. The IEEE default voting rule within a working group is a simple
&gt; &gt; &gt; majority of YES vs. NO votes, with ABSTAINs not included in
&gt; &gt; &gt; determining
&gt; &gt; &gt; majority.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 2. This vote was presented as an unofficial straw poll,
&gt; &gt; &gt; because we are
&gt; &gt; &gt; currently establishing the list of official voters.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 3. We previously established considerable opposition to calling the
&gt; &gt; &gt; Merged Ontology a "Base Document," and have since modified
&gt; &gt; &gt; the question to
&gt; &gt; &gt; remove this label.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 4. All comments that were directly related to the question
&gt; &gt; &gt; have been
&gt; &gt; &gt; posted, and received much discussion. Some votes did change
&gt; &gt; &gt; as a result of
&gt; &gt; &gt; discussion and are reflected in the above results. Those
&gt; &gt; &gt; comments that
&gt; &gt; &gt; related to improving the document were not to be addressed
&gt; &gt; &gt; until and unless
&gt; &gt; &gt; the group decided to work on this document. This is the way ballot
&gt; &gt; &gt; resolution works. We try to improve documents and build consensus by
&gt; &gt; &gt; resolving comments.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 5. This is a very early-on vote in the development of the proposed
&gt; &gt; &gt; document.
&gt; &gt; &gt; It will eventually need to gain 75% approval from the final
&gt; &gt; &gt; balloting group.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Proposed Conclusions:
&gt; &gt; &gt; 1. A simple majority voted YES to the question (copy
&gt; &gt; &gt; below), therefore,
&gt; &gt; &gt; this vote has passed, but by a recognized thin margin.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 2. Aside from the thin approval margin, the group appears to have
&gt; &gt; &gt; rather strong consensus that work should proceed on the
&gt; &gt; &gt; Merged Ontology.
&gt; &gt; &gt; This comes even from many of those who voted NO, who did so
&gt; &gt; &gt; for the reasons
&gt; &gt; &gt; in the posted comments.
&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Proposed Actions resulting from above:
&gt; &gt; &gt; Step 1: Post link to Merged Ontology on SUO web site at
&gt; &gt; &gt; <A  HREF="http://suo.ieee.org">http://suo.ieee.org</A> &lt;<A  HREF="http://suo.ieee.org">http://suo.ieee.org</A>&gt; .
&gt; &gt; &gt; as follows:
&gt; &gt; &gt; Documents under development by this working group:
&gt; &gt; &gt; 1. Merged Ontology &lt;link address&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Step 2: Select a Technical Editor for Merged Ontology document, to be
&gt; &gt; &gt; accomplished by issuing a 'Call for volunteers' followed by
&gt; &gt; &gt; an open and fair
&gt; &gt; &gt; selection process.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Step 3: Place Merged Ontology Document under control of SUO
&gt; &gt; &gt; WG, requiring
&gt; &gt; &gt; Technical Editor to gain approval from group before making
&gt; &gt; &gt; changes. This
&gt; &gt; &gt; would be mostly via an informal consensus process, but would
&gt; &gt; &gt; also include
&gt; &gt; &gt; formal votes (with comment resolution) every 3-6 months.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Step 4: Technical Editor will resolve all comments from the
&gt; &gt; &gt; previous vote
&gt; &gt; &gt; that dealt with improvements to Merged Ontology. Additional
&gt; &gt; &gt; comments will
&gt; &gt; &gt; also be solicited.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Are there any objections to these Observations, Proposed
&gt; &gt; &gt; Conclusions, or
&gt; &gt; &gt; Proposed Actions?
&gt; &gt; &gt; Jim Schoening
&gt; &gt; &gt; Chair, SUO WG
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; ===============================
&gt; &gt; &gt; The completed call for vote follows:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; &gt; From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; &gt; &gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>
&gt; &lt;<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt; ]
&gt; &gt; &gt; Sent: Thursday, January 18, 2001 7:03 AM
&gt; &gt; &gt; To: Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)
&gt; &gt; &gt; Subject: SUO: Revised Call for Vote on Merged Ontology
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; SUO Participants,
&gt; &gt; &gt; 1. Since the prior vote had a variety of problems, it is amended as
&gt; &gt; &gt; follows to focus on the key question.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 2. If you have already cast a vote (and received
&gt; &gt; &gt; acknowledgement) you
&gt; &gt; &gt; don't need to vote again, unless you wish to change your vote
&gt; &gt; &gt; or comments.
&gt; &gt; &gt; However, this is an open list and all are welcome to post or
&gt; &gt; &gt; repost their
&gt; &gt; &gt; opinions.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 3. This message is a call for a vote on the question:
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Should the IEEE Standard Upper Ontology Working Group
&gt; &gt; &gt; commence work on the
&gt; &gt; &gt; Merged Ontology as posted by Ian Niles with the intent of
&gt; &gt; &gt; attempting to
&gt; &gt; &gt; develop it into a final standards document?
&gt; &gt; &gt; 4. Background: If this vote passes, this document will change from
&gt; &gt; &gt; being the work (and under the control) of a group of
&gt; &gt; &gt; individuals to being
&gt; &gt; &gt; the work (and under the control) of the SUO WG. A Technical
&gt; &gt; &gt; Editor will
&gt; &gt; &gt; need to be appointed or elected, who will need group approval
&gt; &gt; &gt; before making
&gt; &gt; &gt; changes. This does not require frequent formal votes for
&gt; &gt; &gt; every change. A
&gt; &gt; &gt; better approach for daily or weekly updates is to develop consensus by
&gt; &gt; &gt; resolving objections, as we did when revising the Scope and
&gt; &gt; &gt; Purpose. In
&gt; &gt; &gt; other words, the editor posts a suggested change and asks for any
&gt; &gt; &gt; objections. Items that do not have clear consensus would be
&gt; &gt; &gt; accumulated.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Then, every 3-6 months the group could have a formal vote on
&gt; &gt; &gt; what would be
&gt; &gt; &gt; the next 'Working Draft.' Comments would be submitted and
&gt; &gt; &gt; resolved before
&gt; &gt; &gt; approval as the next Working Draft.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 5. The purpose of this vote is to determine the level of
&gt; &gt; &gt; consensus we
&gt; &gt; &gt; have for focusing work on this document. In other words, we
&gt; &gt; &gt; need to decide
&gt; &gt; &gt; if we are going to go down this path or not. A working group
&gt; &gt; &gt; may decide to
&gt; &gt; &gt; work on more than one document, so anyone else is free to submit one.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 6. The primary purpose of this vote is NOT to propose
&gt; &gt; &gt; improvements to
&gt; &gt; &gt; the document, unless they are major enough for you to vote
&gt; &gt; &gt; against focusing
&gt; &gt; &gt; work on this document. However, such general improvement comments are
&gt; &gt; &gt; welcome and will be resolved (but not unless and until the
&gt; &gt; &gt; vote passes.
&gt; &gt; &gt; There would be no sense in resolving comments if the group
&gt; &gt; &gt; does not want to
&gt; &gt; &gt; proceed with this document.).
&gt; &gt; &gt; 7. Since we are still in the process of establishing
&gt; &gt; &gt; official voting
&gt; &gt; &gt; rights, I suggest we first conduct this as an unofficial
&gt; &gt; &gt; straw poll, such
&gt; &gt; &gt; that anyone can cast a vote. After resolving all comments,
&gt; &gt; &gt; if consensus is
&gt; &gt; &gt; not clear, we will have the option of conducting a formal
&gt; &gt; &gt; vote (once voting
&gt; &gt; &gt; rights are established).
&gt; &gt; &gt; 8. Your options for voting are YES (comments optional), NO
&gt; &gt; &gt; (comments
&gt; &gt; &gt; required), or ABSTAIN (comments optional).
&gt; &gt; &gt; 9. You may send your votes either to me or to this reflector.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 10. Please vote by Feb 1, 2001.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Jim Schoening
&gt; &gt; &gt; Chair, SUO WG

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<ul><li><strong>References</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="01162" href="msg01162.html">Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Technical Editor</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> &quot;Horn, Graham&quot; &lt;graham.horn@aihw.gov.au&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01166.html">SUO: Picturesque Proofs</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01164.html">Re: SUO: Web site on concept maps</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01162.html">Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Technical Editor</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01174.html">Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Techn	ical Editor</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail67.html#01165"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd67.html#01165"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
