<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: Re: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd) -->
<!--X-From-R13: @vpbyn Uhnevab <@vpbyn.UhnevabNynqfro.cq.pae.vg> -->
<!--X-Date: Tue, 30 Jan 2001 11:26:31 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: v04210106b69c88c470ea@[150.178.2.93] -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: Pine.GSO.3.96.1010127114340.23238A&#45;100000@galaxy -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg00569.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>Re: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd)</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg00521.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg00572.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd78.html#00569">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg00570.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg00568.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail79.html#00569">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>Re: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd)</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: <A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: Re: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd)</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: Nicola Guarino &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it">Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Tue, 30 Jan 2001 17:01:09 +0100</LI>
<LI><em>Cc</em>: Enrico Motta &lt;<A HREF="mailto:e.motta@open.ac.uk">e.motta@open.ac.uk</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>In-reply-to</em>: &lt;<A HREF="msg00521.html">Pine.GSO.3.96.1010127114340.23238A-100000@galaxy</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>References</em>: &lt;<A HREF="msg00521.html">Pine.GSO.3.96.1010127114340.23238A-100000@galaxy</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: Nicola Guarino &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it">Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

I agree on many of the points addressed by Lee Auspitz. Before 
commenting these points in more detail, let me clarify that I agree 
with most of the criticisms expressed by people who have voted "NO", 
but I vote "ABSTAIN" just to avoid being accused of disregarding what 
Ian Niles did.

I believe that the discussion about the content of Ian Niles' 
document that is currently going on is a USEFUL thing, as well as any 
content-related discussion going on this list. This discussion can go 
on (and contribute to some collective progress) INDEPENDENTLY of any 
formal vote about the document as a whole (indeed, it seems it is 
going on in a constructive way, and the voting process hasn't ended 
yet).

As I personally clarified with Jim, I don't think that a vote is 
necessary to recognize a working  document as a relevant input for 
future work, nor to get more people working on it. Rather, especially 
in this early phase, a vote would be more useful to verify the 
consensus about SPECIFIC ISSUES, like an
ontological distinction or a terminological choice. As somebody has
underlined, votes on documents as a whole are more appropriate
towards the end of the standardization process.

Let's go back to Lee's comments now:

At 12:29 PM -0500 28/1/01, Josiah Lee Auspitz wrote:
&gt;Timing and propriety of vote:  I believe a vote of some kind is long
&gt;overdue as a reality check on whether the statement of scope and purpose
&gt;was adequately debugged prior to submission (no vote was taken to assure
&gt;that consensus had in fact been achieved, and no consideration was given
&gt;prior to the submission of whether the merger approach drew on 'best
&gt;practices'). But I do not believe it is fair or appropriate to vote on a
&gt;preliminary draft of the KIF subgroup as if it were the unique focus of
&gt;the effort.  The whole point of such a subgroup, I thought, was to test
&gt;out whether a quick overlap-and-winnow approach (my term) to merger is
&gt;possible with the simplifying limitation of being restricted to KIF and
&gt;drawing on disparate public domain upper level materials. This is only one
&gt;approach to the problem, and pushing it forward can be encouraged as a way
&gt;of stimulating longer term work without elevating it to premature voting.
&gt;I take it that some other timetable is pushing us forward on voting by
&gt;February 1, 2001.

I agree.

&gt;View of the draft:  This strikes me as a conscientious and intelligent
&gt;employment of an overlap-and-winnow method to develop central concepts
&gt;using public domain materials.  There is no exact science in this, but
&gt;good judgment disciplined by clarity about final applications go a long
&gt;way.  On the basis of work experience quite independent of this effort,
&gt;Ian Niles would be a very strong choice to make a useful contribution in
&gt;this field if there were a clearer, shared sense of the domain and
&gt;purposes to be served initially by the completed artifact.

I agree.

&gt;Best Practices: I am, however, disappointed that this early draft does not
&gt;appear to make use of or reference to previous public domain practices in
&gt;the field: the Cyc-Penman upper level alignment, the upper level
&gt;EuroWordNet formed from common terms appearing in several European
&gt;language versions of WordNet, perhaps the Cyc-Wordnet alignment reported
&gt;to this list by a Bulgarian source (which I, too, have not yet checked
&gt;out), and the several attempts to generate upper level ontologies that
&gt;might be used to search a variety of legacy databases within a specific
&gt;domain. I get no sense of how this KIF effort is situated in an
&gt;increasingly competitive field, or indeed, that it is yet adequately
&gt;grounded within the field.

I agree VERY MUCH. I believe we should give more importance to 
previous work in the area of lexical resources. The reference 
ontology we are developing in framework of the IKF project will have 
links to WordNet/EuroWordNet since its first release. Also the 
results of the SIMPLE project 
(<A  HREF="http://www.ub.es/gilcub/SIMPLE/simple.html">http://www.ub.es/gilcub/SIMPLE/simple.html</A>) are very relevant us. 
[Incidentally, I have some reservations about the Cyc-Penman 
alignement, which resulted from a largely "syntactic" methodology and 
was not properly validated from the semantic point of view]

&gt;Methodology/Reference Object:  I brought this distinction forward several
&gt;times before to no avail, and others have put it in other ways without
&gt;much traction, but let me try one last time: a crucial conceptual
&gt;watershed in this area (and one that was the agreed 'best practice' and
&gt;building block of the previous ad hoc ontology effort)  is to distinguish
&gt;the underlying methods, architecture, specifications and algorithms of the
&gt;structure of what would be an acceptable upper level from a given
&gt;instantiation determined by specific design and semantic choices.  This
&gt;latter artifact is properly seen as a 'reference object' embodying one
&gt;version of an underlying body of standards.  Several people on this list
&gt;have further expanded on this point by pointing to the possibility of
&gt;growing and self-maintaining ontological structures permitting a variety
&gt;of users and uses.  These draw on methods that go well beyond the
&gt;merge-and-winnow approach, and cannot be adeuqately covered merely by
&gt;making explicit the 'syntactic' choices and axioms of the reference
&gt;object.

I agree.

&gt;
&gt;Maintenance: Are there in fact as many as five members of this group, not
&gt;under a short-term contract to participate, prepared to give Ian's content
&gt;choices continuing attention and review *and* to maintain the content
&gt;choices for 4-5 years, answering queries and making emendations?  If so,
&gt;let them continue this in the KIF subgroup and develop a reference object
&gt;so carefully hedged and specified as to be ready for a prime time vote.

Even without this resources, it makes sense for the people who have 
started this document to keep working on it, interacting with the 
rest of the group.

&gt;Email Mechanics: Doug Skuce, the Canadian scholar who has developed
&gt;software tools to facilitate collaboration on concept definitions,
&gt;unfortunately unsubscribed from the group fairly early. If work on the KIF
&gt;artifact goes forward, someone might wish to contact him for suggestions
&gt;on how to guard an email editing process of several hundred core concepts
&gt;from becoming a bottomless pit.

I agree. We definitely need sophisticated groupware techniques. 
Besides Doug, Enrico Motta is also working on tools for critiquing 
and discussing documents which may be of help for our project. See 
<A  HREF="http://d3e.open.ac.uk/">http://d3e.open.ac.uk/</A>.

&gt;Specific aims of the editing of the KIF artifact:  the correspondence to
&gt;date suggests that the main aim of future collaborative work will be to
&gt;purge the merged artifact of concepts of merely philosophical interest.  I
&gt;question the feasibility of this, if one begins with the Sowa ontology,
&gt;whose defining virtue is as a philosophically oriented construction formed
&gt;by applying a Peircean tripartite division to Whiteheadean categories.

Indeed, Sowa's top level is something we should discuss and 
approve/modify/reject BEFORE voting on an integration proposal based 
on it.

&gt;
&gt;Summary and prognosis: It now appears that there was not a sufficient
&gt;backlog of prior work brought into the effort to provide a realistic
&gt;prospect of a successful 'quick and dirty' approach, even in the limited
&gt;KIF subgroup.  Doing the job right under a voluntaristic model, as the ISO
&gt;data integration experience first cited by Matthew West in July suggests,
&gt;will require a considerable, multi-year commitment with frequent meetings
&gt;and working papers. Whether even this is sufficient for the SUO task is
&gt;questionable: on the basis of the previous four-year experience on upper
&gt;level ontologies, and indeed the de facto structure of this current
&gt;effort, I would respectfully suggest that a productive effort will
&gt;require, above and beyond the time of standing experts retained by
&gt;participating companies, specifically authorized funding over a multi-year
&gt;period bringing relevant intellectual skills from the more general
&gt;research/academic community to bear on the problem. That is to say,
&gt;working papers both from within and outside the normal standards community
&gt;must be commissioned as the topic requires.

I agree. My institute has some (modest) funding for this. In the 
framework of the IKF project, we may consider contributing to the 
expenses of a limited group of people working on basic ontological 
distinctions for a few days.

Cheers,

-- Nicola



  ---------------------------------

Nicola Guarino
National Research Council	phone: +39 O49 8295751
LADSEB-CNR		fax:   +39 O49 8295763
Corso Stati Uniti, 4		email: Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it
I-35127 Padova
Italy

<A  HREF="http://www.ladseb.pd.cnr.it/infor/ontology/ontology.html">http://www.ladseb.pd.cnr.it/infor/ontology/ontology.html</A>
(***updated 10/1/2001 ***)

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<ul><li><strong>References</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="00521" href="msg00521.html">Re: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd)</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> Josiah Lee Auspitz &lt;lee@textwise.com&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00570.html">SUO: Re: RE: RE: #2 Comments from Francis McCabe</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00568.html">Re: SUO: RE: Re: Signation</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg00521.html">Re: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd)</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg00572.html">RE: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd)</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail79.html#00569"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd78.html#00569"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
