<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Irfg, [nggurj D EWFW&#45;WFBEWS" <[nggurj.D.IrfgNWE.furyy.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Thu, 6 Dec 2001 09:05:15 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E42709FCF29D@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg03488.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg03480.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03489.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd20.html#03488">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg03489.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03487.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail21.html#03488">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<ul>
<li><em>To</em>: &quot;Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;,       &quot;Ontology (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:ontology@ieee.org">ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Subject</em>: RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey</li>
<li><em>From</em>: &quot;West, Matthew R SITI-ITPSIE&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Date</em>: Thu, 6 Dec 2001 15:04:42 +0100 </li>
<li><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org">owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org</A></li>
</ul>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Dear Jim,

This sounds encouraging.

See comments below.


Matthew West
Principal Consultant
Shell Information Technology International Limited
Shell Centre, London SE1 7NA, United Kingdom

Tel: +44 20 7934 4490 Other Tel: +44 7796 336538
Email: matthew.r.west@is.shell.com
Internet: <A  HREF="http://www.shell.com">http://www.shell.com</A>


&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>]
&gt; Sent: 05 December 2001 13:07
&gt; To: Ontology (E-mail)
&gt; Subject: RE: ONT Re: SUO: Re: Trying to work with Jon Awbrey
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew Jon and others,
&gt; 
&gt; MW: However, you have frequently suggested that the only sort 
&gt; of document
&gt; that you find acceptable is something that purports to be a standard
&gt; ontology, which doesn't leave those of us that think there are some
&gt; pre-requisites anywhere much to go.
&gt; 
&gt; JS:   Agreed.  My use of the term &quot;standards words&quot; is too 
&gt; narrow.  In your
&gt; other post you gave some examples of pre-standards words:
&gt; 
&gt; - statement of requirements
&gt;  - standing documents for internal procedures
&gt;  - documents providing background theory/approach taken/proposed
&gt;    for the development of a standard.
&gt; 
&gt; 	I agree these are all valid for documents, but not for extended
&gt; threads.  We must balance volume with how directly it 
&gt; contributes.  Jon's
&gt; postings are too remote for his volume.  He could post papers 
&gt; or introduce
&gt; threads, but he should not continue the threads on this list.  

MW: I agree that Jon should prepare and post papers, rather than
&quot;slow print&quot; them to the list. I would prefer that from a reading
point of view too.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; MW: I see Jon's contributions as towards a future, rather than 
&gt; &gt; &gt; current
&gt; &gt; &gt; document.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; If this were true, he could surely show 'some' early words.  
&gt; 
&gt; MW: He has shown lots of early words. The whole Functional 
&gt; Logic thread
&gt; is early words.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: OK, let's take this as an example.  Let me ask some 
&gt; questions (keeping
&gt; in mind I don't follow Jon's threads). 
&gt; 	1. He should have started out by proposing a draft of 
&gt; those words,
&gt; or writing a paper and asking for review.  

MW: Yes, I think this would have been better.

&gt; I'm guessing he started the
&gt; thread and did his ongoing exploration.

MW: No. It looks like he had prepared a paper, and then broken it
up into chunks which he sent to the list. I would prefer he sent
5-10 page chunks as PDF files with an executive summary e-mail.

&gt; 	2. Did he wrap up his final version and present it for 
&gt; review and
&gt; acceptance?

MW: No, but this is largely because you give him no place to do
it since the only documents you have deemed appropriate are ontology
standards documents.

&gt; 	3. Does it relate to either starter document?  

MW: No, it precedes both of them. In my categories above it is
background/theory/approach.

&gt; If so, did he
&gt; formally propose it to them and explain how it fits?  If not, 
&gt; please explain
&gt; its contribution. 

MW: Jon's paper presents some foundations of logic which he thinks
are important to set out as the basis for what is to follow. This
is  important, because as you will already have seen, logic, and
some of the stuff immediately around it, is not as cut and dried
as we might like to think. There are choices to be made, and these
should be made explicitly. As you may conclude from his exchange
with CM, there is nothing earth shattering here.

MW: Jon's main contention that this is all leading to is that the
&quot;big problem&quot; we really face is ontology development, rather than
a specific ontology, and that we need amongst other things to 
specify and develop tools for this purpose. This would support an
&quot;enquiry&quot; process which would support the interaction between
ontology developers to help them resolve issues and move forwards.
He correctly identifies semiotics (for practical purpose the
relationships between terms and meanings) as a key element in this.

MW: The main reason I am bothering to mediate here is that I have
enough experience from my base standards community to know that he
is right about these things. If we think we are going to create
anything significant by hand coding KIF files, we don't understand
the problem, but that is where we are right now.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; JS:  He is welcome to do his exploring on the Ontology list, but it
&gt; &gt; doesn't belong on the SUO list.  If we met in person, he wouldn't be
&gt; &gt; permitted to do about a quarter of the talking on these types 
&gt; &gt; of topics.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: This is why I suggested essentially renaming the ontolgy list to
&gt; the development list.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: Jon, would you agree to do your work on a 'development' list if we
&gt; created done?
&gt; 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<ul><li><strong>Follow-Ups</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="03489" href="msg03489.html">ONT Re: trying to work</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> Jon Awbrey &lt;jawbrey@oakland.edu&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03489.html">ONT Re: trying to work</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03487.html">ONT Re: Ontological Subscriptions</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03480.html">ONT Re: trying to work</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03489.html">ONT Re: trying to work</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail21.html#03488"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd20.html#03488"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
