<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Technical Editor -->
<!--X-From-R13: Wna @vyrf <vavyrfNgrxabjyrqtr.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Tue, 20 Feb 2001 14:31:20 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: EE25484266A64A47AE06CFC47C64232B18F9D9@helium.teknowledge.com -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01146.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Technical Editor</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:iniles@teknowledge.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg01157.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01152.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd67.html#01146">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01147.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01145.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail68.html#01146">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Technical Editor</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;'Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I'&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;,       &quot;Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Technical Editor</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: Ian Niles &lt;<A HREF="mailto:iniles@teknowledge.com">iniles@teknowledge.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Tue, 20 Feb 2001 10:58:27 -0800</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: Ian Niles &lt;<A HREF="mailto:iniles@teknowledge.com">iniles@teknowledge.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Hi Jim,

     I hereby volunteer for the role of Technical Editor of the Merged
Ontology document.

-Ian

&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>]
&gt; Sent: Friday, February 16, 2001 7:11 PM
&gt; To: Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)
&gt; Subject: SUO: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Technical
&gt; Editor
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; SUO:
&gt; 
&gt; 	As there have been no objections to the below proposed 
&gt; conclusions
&gt; and proposed actions, they are considered adopted.  
&gt; Congratulations, Ian,
&gt; Adam, and all those who have contributed to the Merged Ontology.
&gt; 
&gt; 	We now need to select a Technical Editor for this 
&gt; document, via an
&gt; open and fair process.    I would now like to issue a 'Call 
&gt; for Volunteers'
&gt; for the position of Technical Editor of the Merged Ontology document.
&gt; Please respond to me and/or this list by Feb 23rd, or if this 
&gt; is not enough
&gt; time, ask for an extension. 
&gt;  
&gt; Jim Schoening
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: 	Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>] 
&gt; Sent:	Tuesday, February 13, 2001 6:53 PM
&gt; To:	'Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)'
&gt; Subject:	SUO: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; SUO,
&gt; 
&gt; Final vote results on Merged Ontology (see ballot question 
&gt; below) are: 
&gt; YES = 11
&gt; NO  = 9
&gt; ABSTAIN = 4 
&gt; 
&gt; YES votes were from: John Thompson, Adam Pease, John Velman, 
&gt; Graham Horn,
&gt; Roberto Bordogna, Ian Niles, Douglas McDavid, John Sowa, 
&gt; Fredrick Chase,
&gt; Frank Farance, Jay Halcomb.
&gt; NO votes were from: Matthew West, Chris Partridge, Robert 
&gt; Kent, Stefano
&gt; Borgo, John Dickert, Francis McCabe, Lee Auspitz, Bob 
&gt; Spillers, Chris Angus.
&gt; 
&gt; ABSTAINs were from: Pat Hayes, Michael Uschold, Sofia Pinto, Nicola
&gt; Guarino
&gt; Please correct me if I have tabulated your vote incorrectly.
&gt; Observations: 
&gt; 1.	The IEEE default voting rule within a working group is a simple
&gt; majority of YES vs. NO votes, with ABSTAINs not included in 
&gt; determining
&gt; majority.  
&gt; 2.	This vote was presented as an unofficial straw poll, 
&gt; because we are
&gt; currently establishing the list of official voters.
&gt; 3.	We previously established considerable opposition to calling the
&gt; Merged Ontology a "Base Document," and have since modified 
&gt; the question to
&gt; remove this label.  
&gt; 4.	All comments that were directly related to the question 
&gt; have been
&gt; posted, and received much discussion.  Some votes did change 
&gt; as a result of
&gt; discussion and are reflected in the above results.  Those 
&gt; comments that
&gt; related to improving the document were not to be addressed 
&gt; until and unless
&gt; the group decided to work on this document.  This is the way ballot
&gt; resolution works.  We try to improve documents and build consensus by
&gt; resolving comments.
&gt; 5.	This is a very early-on vote in the development of the proposed
&gt; document.
&gt; It will eventually need to gain 75% approval from the final 
&gt; balloting group.
&gt; Proposed Conclusions:
&gt; 1.	A simple majority voted YES to the question (copy 
&gt; below), therefore,
&gt; this vote has passed, but by a recognized thin margin. 
&gt; 2.	Aside from the thin approval margin, the group appears to have
&gt; rather strong consensus that work should proceed on the 
&gt; Merged Ontology.
&gt; This comes even from many of those who voted NO, who did so 
&gt; for the reasons
&gt; in the posted comments. 
&gt; 
&gt; Proposed Actions resulting from above:
&gt; Step 1: Post link to Merged Ontology on SUO web site at 
&gt; <A  HREF="http://suo.ieee.org">http://suo.ieee.org</A>.
&gt; as follows: 
&gt; Documents under development by this working group:
&gt; 1.	Merged Ontology &lt;link address&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; Step 2: Select a Technical Editor for Merged Ontology document, to be
&gt; accomplished by issuing a 'Call for volunteers' followed by 
&gt; an open and fair
&gt; selection process.
&gt; Step 3: Place Merged Ontology Document under control of SUO 
&gt; WG, requiring
&gt; Technical Editor to gain approval from group before making 
&gt; changes.  This
&gt; would be mostly via an informal consensus process, but would 
&gt; also include
&gt; formal votes (with comment resolution) every 3-6 months.  
&gt; Step 4: Technical Editor will resolve all comments from the 
&gt; previous vote
&gt; that dealt with improvements to Merged Ontology.  Additional 
&gt; comments will
&gt; also be solicited.
&gt; Are there any objections to these Observations, Proposed 
&gt; Conclusions, or
&gt; Proposed Actions?
&gt; Jim Schoening
&gt; Chair, SUO WG
&gt; 
&gt; ===============================
&gt; The completed call for vote follows:
&gt; 
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From:	Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>]
&gt; Sent:	Thursday, January 18, 2001 7:03 AM
&gt; To:	Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)
&gt; Subject:	SUO: Revised Call for Vote on Merged Ontology
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; SUO Participants,
&gt; 1.	Since the prior vote had a variety of problems, it is amended as
&gt; follows to focus on the key question.  
&gt; 2.	If you have already cast a vote (and received 
&gt; acknowledgement) you
&gt; don't need to vote again, unless you wish to change your vote 
&gt; or comments.
&gt; However, this is an open list and all are welcome to post or 
&gt; repost their
&gt; opinions.
&gt; 3.	This message is a call for a vote on the question:
&gt; 
&gt; Should the IEEE Standard Upper Ontology Working Group 
&gt; commence work on the
&gt; Merged Ontology as posted by Ian Niles with the intent of 
&gt; attempting to
&gt; develop it into a final standards document?
&gt; 4.	Background:  If this vote passes, this document will change from
&gt; being the work (and under the control) of a group of 
&gt; individuals to being
&gt; the work (and under the control) of the SUO WG.  A Technical 
&gt; Editor will
&gt; need to be appointed or elected, who will need group approval 
&gt; before making
&gt; changes.  This does not require frequent formal votes for 
&gt; every change. A
&gt; better approach for daily or weekly updates is to develop consensus by
&gt; resolving objections, as we did when revising the Scope and 
&gt; Purpose.  In
&gt; other words, the editor posts a suggested change and asks for any
&gt; objections. Items that do not have clear consensus would be 
&gt; accumulated.
&gt; Then, every 3-6 months the group could have a formal vote on 
&gt; what would be
&gt; the next 'Working Draft.' Comments would be submitted and 
&gt; resolved before
&gt; approval as the next Working Draft.
&gt; 5.	The purpose of this vote is to determine the level of 
&gt; consensus we
&gt; have for focusing work on this document.  In other words, we 
&gt; need to decide
&gt; if we are going to go down this path or not.  A working group 
&gt; may decide to
&gt; work on more than one document, so anyone else is free to submit one.
&gt; 6.	The primary purpose of this vote is NOT to propose 
&gt; improvements to
&gt; the document, unless they are major enough for you to vote 
&gt; against focusing
&gt; work on this document.  However, such general improvement comments are
&gt; welcome and will be resolved (but not unless and until the 
&gt; vote passes.
&gt; There would be no sense in resolving comments if the group 
&gt; does not want to
&gt; proceed with this document.).
&gt; 7.	Since we are still in the process of establishing 
&gt; official voting
&gt; rights, I suggest we first conduct this as an unofficial 
&gt; straw poll, such
&gt; that anyone can cast a vote.  After resolving all comments, 
&gt; if consensus is
&gt; not clear, we will have the option of conducting a formal 
&gt; vote (once voting
&gt; rights are established).
&gt; 8.	Your options for voting are YES (comments optional), NO 
&gt; (comments
&gt; required), or ABSTAIN (comments optional).
&gt; 9.	You may send your votes either to me or to this reflector.
&gt; 10.	Please vote by Feb 1, 2001.
&gt; 
&gt; Jim Schoening
&gt; Chair, SUO WG
&gt; 
&gt; 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<ul><li><strong>Follow-Ups</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="01152" href="msg01152.html">Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Technical Edit or</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> Josiah Lee Auspitz &lt;lee@textwise.com&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01147.html">Re: SUO: On the supreme supertype</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01145.html">RE: SUO: RE: RE: RE: RE: Collections - Aggregation or Set</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01157.html">SUO: Re: Ticular Formation</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01152.html">Re: SUO: RE: Conclusion of Vote and Call for Volunteers for Technical Edit or</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail68.html#01146"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd67.html#01146"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
