<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: RE: RE: RE: Process for accepting "working papers" / "expert contribu tions" &#45;&#45; RE: RE: Violation of process -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Irfg, [nggurj [D EEW&#45;UDSO&#45;GY" <[nggurj.D.IrfgNvf.furyy.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Thu, 29 Mar 2001 16:05:07 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E427077C4CC4@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01949.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: RE: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert co</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg02045.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01948.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd50.html#01949">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01950.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01948.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail52.html#01949">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: RE: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contribu tions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: RE: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contribu tions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Thu, 29 Mar 2001 22:38:32 +0200</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Dear Phil,

You came in half way through, so there is some stuff you probably don't know
- assuming you haven't waded through the whole back catalogue of SUO e-mail.

See comments below.

Regards  
      Matthew
===============================================================
Matthew West                    <A  HREF="http://www.matthew-west.org.uk/">http://www.matthew-west.org.uk/</A>

Principal Consultant                   Shell Visiting Professor
Operations &amp; Asset Management            The Keyworth Institute
Shell Services International            The University of Leeds
<A  HREF="http://www.shellservices.com/">http://www.shellservices.com/</A>  <A  HREF="http://www.keyworth.leeds.ac.uk/">http://www.keyworth.leeds.ac.uk/</A>

H3229, Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA, UK.
Tel: +44 207 934 4490 Fax: 7929 Mobile: +44 7796 336538
=============================================================== 

&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Philip Jackson [<A  HREF="mailto:phil.jackson@computer.org">mailto:phil.jackson@computer.org</A>]
&gt; Sent: 29 March 2001 14:48
&gt; To: West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK;
&gt; James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil; Standard-Upper-Ontology
&gt; (E-mail)
&gt; Subject: RE: RE: RE: RE: Process for accepting "working papers" /
&gt; "expert contribu tions" -- RE: RE: Violation of process
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Dear Matthew and Jim,
&gt; 
&gt; The questions I asked below were posed earlier this week, 
&gt; before it seemed
&gt; that people were converging toward a consensus. If in fact we 
&gt; are reaching a
&gt; consensus, then these questions may have effectively already 
&gt; been answered,
&gt; and the idea of voting on them individually would not make 
&gt; sense. Rather,
&gt; the best way to ratify the consensus may be through a motion 
&gt; to be adopted
&gt; by general consent, such as has been proposed by Bob Spillers and is
&gt; currently being developed in other threads.

MW: I agree, we should follow Bob's lead on this.
&gt; 
&gt; Along these lines, Jim and Matthew's comments below indicate 
&gt; that we should
&gt; make a clear distinction between an "expert contribution" and 
&gt; a "working
&gt; document". An expert contribution may be brought to the group 
&gt; without a
&gt; vote, and one or more experts may work on developing it 
&gt; informally, without
&gt; implying any endorsement by the SUO working group.

MW: Yes, I believe there already is a definition for Working Document
that Jim has been alluding to. It is defined by IEEE. We probably should
not mess with that.
&gt; 
&gt; A working document would be something that has reached the 
&gt; stage where a
&gt; sufficient number of the members of the SUO working group 
&gt; want to have it
&gt; endorsed by the working group as a potential candidate for 
&gt; the final SUO
&gt; standard, and want to appoint a technical editor to formally 
&gt; control its
&gt; development.

MW: Yes, the merged ontology was by a narrow margin given that status on 
a vote, not on the basis that it was at an appropriate stage of development 
to work  towards a standard, but that it was necessary at this stage to
put it under control of the group. I think it is fair to say in hindsight
that this was premature, and the technical position at the moment is that
we have a working document but no editor for it, due to the objections
that have been raised, including by some who originally voted for the
merged ontology being accepted as a working document.

MW: It is of course important to keep these procedural issues separate
from becoming a reflection on the work that Ian has done, which is
unquestionably valuable.

MW: Ian and Adam have to decide whether to pursue a vote on the editorship
or to withdraw the Merged Ontology as a working document and submit it as
an Expert Contribution (following the passage of Bob's resolution. The
recent
changes on the web site indicate an intention to do the latter, which shows
grace and statesmanship on their part.

&gt; 
&gt; Note that under this definition, SUO could have more than one working
&gt; document and they would all have equal status, i.e. just 
&gt; being a working
&gt; document would not mean that SUO had selected that document 
&gt; as the final
&gt; standard.

MW: I would in any case expect a number of separate but related standards
to come out of the work here. E.g. Architecture, methodology, content, 
langauge (but being done elsewhere).
&gt; 
&gt; What is "a sufficient number", and are there any limits on 
&gt; when a working
&gt; document may be proposed? These questions are further discussed below.

MW: My personal opinion is that we should set a relatively high hurdle to
jump before accepting something as a working document. I ahve had this 
imposed on me in SC4, and whilst I didn't like it, I have to admit that
the work benefited.
&gt; 
&gt; Another question is whether we should even have working 
&gt; documents at all, or
&gt; should everything be an expert contribution? How do we move 
&gt; from expert
&gt; contributions to the final SUO standard? I am not an expert 
&gt; in standards
&gt; development processes, but it seems clear these things need 
&gt; to be spelled
&gt; out in advance -- we need a roadmap that shows how we'll get 
&gt; from here to
&gt; there.

We do need eventually say that some documents are endorsed by this group
as a standard. This can only  be done by some combination of voting and
issue resolution.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 1) Should we have any formally designated working documents
&gt; &gt; &gt; at all at this
&gt; &gt; &gt; point? (yes, no, abstain)
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; JS: Any member can propose any document at any time.  If
&gt; &gt; &gt; seconded, it must
&gt; &gt; &gt; be put to a vote.  The vote determines whether it is mature
&gt; &gt; &gt; enough.  You
&gt; &gt; &gt; can't tell someone they can't propose a document because you
&gt; &gt; &gt; don't think it
&gt; &gt; &gt; is mature enough.  All you can do is vote against it.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; MW: It depends what you mean by "Working Document" in recent
&gt; &gt; correspondence
&gt; &gt; I have been using Working Document in the sense that John and Bob
&gt; &gt; have taken
&gt; &gt; to be Expert Contribution.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; You seem to be talking here about a document that has 
&gt; reached the stage
&gt; &gt; where
&gt; &gt; we are looking to agree to move it becoming a standard. In 
&gt; this sense I
&gt; &gt; agree
&gt; &gt; with your comments, but would observe that we have no 
&gt; documents that are
&gt; &gt; currently in or near that state (IMHO).
&gt; 
&gt; Again, we need to clearly define what we mean by a working 
&gt; document. For
&gt; now, I will use the definition I gave above.

MW: We should use the IEEE definition, which is what Jim is alluding to
&gt; 
&gt; People (even experts) may honestly disagree about whether a 
&gt; document is at
&gt; the stage where it should become a "working document". The 
&gt; only fair way to
&gt; resolve such a disagreement would be through a vote. Granted 
&gt; such a vote
&gt; will always be based on people's judgments, but at least a vote would
&gt; provide a formal method for weighing and recording people's 
&gt; judgments, and
&gt; reaching a decision by the group. A vote will also provide 
&gt; closure, and
&gt; avoid endless debate, provided the mechanisms for conducting 
&gt; a vote are
&gt; clearly understood and agreed beforehand.

MW: Democracy: the worst possible for of government - except 
all the others.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 2) Should any documents be designated as preeminent over
&gt; &gt; &gt; others at this
&gt; &gt; &gt; point? (yes, no, abstain)
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; JS: Listing them in the order of approval is probably the fairest.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; MW: Yes, using a numbering system would be useful for this. I
&gt; &gt; also think we
&gt; &gt; need some basic classification system, such as Content, Methodology,
&gt; &gt; background/supporting documents.
&gt; 
&gt; This sounds fine to me. It seems clear there is consensus we 
&gt; should not
&gt; designate one expert contribution as preeiminent over another, or one
&gt; working document as preeiminent over another.

MW: It is preferable if Working Documents are complimentary rather than
competitive. Working Documents would in general expect to have a higher
status than expert contributions.
&gt; 
&gt; There is also no reason to say that working documents are 
&gt; preeminent over
&gt; expert contributions. For example, at this point in time, 
&gt; OpenCyc might be
&gt; considered as at least a potential "expert contribution". If 
&gt; the "merged
&gt; ontology" is a working document, then it is certainly not 
&gt; more likely to
&gt; become the final SUO standard than OpenCyc.

MW: There is a presumption that SUO content will be in KIF. CYC is not
so whilst it could be an Expert Contribution, only something converted
to KIF might become a Working Document, and personally I think there is
more value in looking at CYC and trying to find a more principled way
to say the same thing, so using it as a requirements statement, rather
than simple content - but that's just my opinion.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 3) If we have working documents, what procedure should be 
&gt; followed to
&gt; &gt; &gt; designate something as a working document (Choose one):
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; A) A vote requiring a plurality of voting members in favor of
&gt; &gt; &gt; the document?
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; JS: Majority vote, with Abstains not counted, is what I've always
&gt; &gt; &gt; seen.  SUO has
&gt; &gt; &gt; about 50 voting members, but only 24 cast votes in the straw poll.
&gt; &gt; &gt; A plurality is too high a barrier.
&gt; 
&gt; This is ok with me. If more people abstain (or don't vote) 
&gt; than vote no or
&gt; yes, then only those who vote no or yes would decide the issue.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; MW: This is appropriate once we think we have something we want to
&gt; &gt; standardise.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; B) Any voting member may submit a document and it is automatically
&gt; &gt; &gt; recognized as a working document?
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; JS: I see no way we can allow a single member to commit this
&gt; &gt; &gt; WG to working
&gt; &gt; &gt; on a document.  The chair would need to monitor things 
&gt; like fairness,
&gt; &gt; &gt; openness, due process, copyright permissions, etc. A
&gt; &gt; &gt; Technical Editor would
&gt; &gt; &gt; need to be appointed/selected and would need to get group
&gt; &gt; &gt; approval before
&gt; &gt; &gt; making changes.   Even if we voted in favor of this, I expect
&gt; &gt; &gt; IEEE would
&gt; &gt; &gt; overrule us.  Besides, doesn't the group want to have a say
&gt; &gt; &gt; in what we are
&gt; &gt; &gt; working on, and what we are viewed as working on. I also
&gt; &gt; &gt; think we wouldn't
&gt; &gt; &gt; want to be working on more than a handful of documents.  We
&gt; &gt; &gt; can achieve this
&gt; &gt; &gt; same end by permitting anyone to submit any document, 
&gt; seek informal
&gt; &gt; &gt; participation, and voluntarily follow the rules of IEEE, but
&gt; &gt; &gt; NOT have any
&gt; &gt; &gt; official status as a group project.  When ready, it could be
&gt; &gt; &gt; proposed as a
&gt; &gt; &gt; group effort.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; MW: Yes, this would be the Expert Contribution, which is 
&gt; the stage I think
&gt; &gt; we are at now.
&gt; 
&gt; I agree, a single member should not be able to commit the 
&gt; entire WG to a
&gt; document. A vote should be required for that.
&gt; 
&gt; I am still unclear about the question, when and how do votes 
&gt; for working
&gt; documents get proposed? Now or at some future time, Matthew 
&gt; and many others
&gt; mahy believe we do not yet have something ready for the 
&gt; status of a working
&gt; document, but there may be other experts who disagree. If 
&gt; someone believes
&gt; their document is ready for consideration as a standard, then 
&gt; they should be
&gt; able to test their belief in some formal way, and not be 
&gt; prevented from
&gt; doing this just by the individual assertions of others who disagree.

MW: Under Robert's Rules as I understand it anyone may propose, and provided
there is a seconder then there will be a vote (after points of order and
discussion).
&gt; 
&gt; Another question is what is the status of the "merged 
&gt; ontology"? Is it no
&gt; longer a working document and are the results of the straw 
&gt; poll revoked?

MW: It would be fair to say the status is problematic.

&gt; Should we have another vote just to be fair to the proponents 
&gt; of the merged
&gt; ontology? 

MW: Ian and Adam have to decide what they think is the best way forward.

&gt; Or do they wish to withdraw the "merged ontology" from
&gt; consideration as a working document, and propose it only as an expert
&gt; contribution at this time?

MW: I would encourage them to do this, but we have to establish the category

of Expert Contribution to enable this.
&gt; 
&gt; Phil Jackson
&gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; "At any rate, it is clear that nothing but a principle of 
&gt; habit, itself due
&gt; to the growth by habit of an infinitesimal chance tendency toward
&gt; habit-taking, is the only bridge that can span the chasm between the
&gt; chance-medley of chaos and the cosmos of order and law." - 
&gt; Peirce, CP6:262.
&gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; Standard Disclaimers. www.philjackson.prohosting.com
&gt; 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01950.html">SUO: Meaning-preserving translations</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01948.html">SUO: Semes To Be The Truth</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg02045.html">SUO: Re: eircePay</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01948.html">SUO: Semes To Be The Truth</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail52.html#01949"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd50.html#01949"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
