<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: #6: Best Practices -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Irfg, [nggurj [D EEW&#45;UDSO&#45;GY" <[nggurj.D.IrfgNvf.furyy.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Thu, 1 Feb 2001 04:58:24 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E427070BCEF4@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg00660.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: #6: Best Practices</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg00746.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg00677.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd73.html#00660">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg00661.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg00659.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail77.html#00660">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: #6: Best Practices</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;,       &quot;Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: #6: Best Practices</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Thu, 1 Feb 2001 10:40:37 +0100 </LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Dear Jim,

From what I can see, there are a number of different practices around. I'm
not sure I could point to any one as being "Best Practice" in all respects.

But then I think one of the things we need to do is to look at current
practice and see why different people do thigns differently, and what the
consequences of that are, so we can create a best practice that we can then
apply consistently.

Regards  
      Matthew
============================================
Matthew West
Operations &amp; Asset Management
Shell Services International
H3229, Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA, UK.
Tel: +44 207 934 4490 Fax: 7929 
Mobile: +44 7796 336538
E-mail: Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com
<A  HREF="http://www.shellservices.com/">http://www.shellservices.com/</A>
============================================

&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>]
&gt; Sent: 31 January 2001 23:28
&gt; To: Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)
&gt; Subject: SUO: #6: Best Practices
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Comment #6:
&gt; 
&gt; A comment for Lee Auspitz [<A  HREF="mailto:lee@textwise.com]:">mailto:lee@textwise.com]:</A>
&gt; 
&gt; 	"best practices-- are we sufficiently grounded. Does the merger
&gt; document
&gt; reflect or take cognizance of best practices"
&gt; 
&gt; 	The full context of Lee's message is found below.
&gt; 
&gt; 	Please reply with comments and replies.
&gt; 
&gt; Jim Schoening
&gt; 
&gt; ======================================
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Josiah Lee Auspitz [<A  HREF="mailto:lee@textwise.com">mailto:lee@textwise.com</A>]
&gt; Sent: Sunday, January 28, 2001 12:30 PM
&gt; To: standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org
&gt; Subject: Re: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd)
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; I vote NO, with the following comments: 
&gt; 
&gt; Timing and propriety of vote:  I believe a vote of some kind is long
&gt; overdue as a reality check on whether the statement of scope 
&gt; and purpose
&gt; was adequately debugged prior to submission (no vote was 
&gt; taken to assure
&gt; that consensus had in fact been achieved, and no 
&gt; consideration was given
&gt; prior to the submission of whether the merger approach drew on 'best
&gt; practices'). But I do not believe it is fair or appropriate 
&gt; to vote on a
&gt; preliminary draft of the KIF subgroup as if it were the 
&gt; unique focus of
&gt; the effort.  The whole point of such a subgroup, I thought, 
&gt; was to test
&gt; out whether a quick overlap-and-winnow approach (my term) to merger is
&gt; possible with the simplifying limitation of being restricted 
&gt; to KIF and
&gt; drawing on disparate public domain upper level materials. 
&gt; This is only one
&gt; approach to the problem, and pushing it forward can be 
&gt; encouraged as a way
&gt; of stimulating longer term work without elevating it to 
&gt; premature voting. 
&gt; I take it that some other timetable is pushing us forward on voting by
&gt; February 1, 2001.
&gt; 
&gt; View of the draft:  This strikes me as a conscientious and intelligent
&gt; employment of an overlap-and-winnow method to develop central concepts
&gt; using public domain materials.  There is no exact science in this, but
&gt; good judgment disciplined by clarity about final applications 
&gt; go a long
&gt; way.  On the basis of work experience quite independent of 
&gt; this effort,
&gt; Ian Niles would be a very strong choice to make a useful 
&gt; contribution in
&gt; this field if there were a clearer, shared sense of the domain and
&gt; purposes to be served initially by the completed artifact.
&gt; 
&gt; Best Practices: I am, however, disappointed that this early 
&gt; draft does not
&gt; appear to make use of or reference to previous public domain 
&gt; practices in
&gt; the field: the Cyc-Penman upper level alignment, the upper level
&gt; EuroWordNet formed from common terms appearing in several European
&gt; language versions of WordNet, perhaps the Cyc-Wordnet 
&gt; alignment reported
&gt; to this list by a Bulgarian source (which I, too, have not yet checked
&gt; out), and the several attempts to generate upper level ontologies that
&gt; might be used to search a variety of legacy databases within 
&gt; a specific
&gt; domain. I get no sense of how this KIF effort is situated in an
&gt; increasingly competitive field, or indeed, that it is yet adequately
&gt; grounded within the field.
&gt; 
&gt; Methodology/Reference Object:  I brought this distinction 
&gt; forward several
&gt; times before to no avail, and others have put it in other ways without
&gt; much traction, but let me try one last time: a crucial conceptual
&gt; watershed in this area (and one that was the agreed 'best 
&gt; practice' and
&gt; building block of the previous ad hoc ontology effort)  is to 
&gt; distinguish
&gt; the underlying methods, architecture, specifications and 
&gt; algorithms of the
&gt; structure of what would be an acceptable upper level from a given
&gt; instantiation determined by specific design and semantic 
&gt; choices.  This
&gt; latter artifact is properly seen as a 'reference object' embodying one
&gt; version of an underlying body of standards.  Several people 
&gt; on this list
&gt; have further expanded on this point by pointing to the possibility of
&gt; growing and self-maintaining ontological structures 
&gt; permitting a variety
&gt; of users and uses.  These draw on methods that go well beyond the
&gt; merge-and-winnow approach, and cannot be adeuqately covered merely by
&gt; making explicit the 'syntactic' choices and axioms of the reference
&gt; object.
&gt; 
&gt; Maintenance: Are there in fact as many as five members of 
&gt; this group, not
&gt; under a short-term contract to participate, prepared to give 
&gt; Ian's content
&gt; choices continuing attention and review *and* to maintain the content
&gt; choices for 4-5 years, answering queries and making 
&gt; emendations?  If so,
&gt; let them continue this in the KIF subgroup and develop a 
&gt; reference object
&gt; so carefully hedged and specified as to be ready for a prime 
&gt; time vote.
&gt; 
&gt; Funding: I am agreeable to providing timely, positive indications
&gt; serviceable to those seeking government funding or renewals 
&gt; or extensions
&gt; in connection with this effort, so long as these do not 
&gt; involve the full
&gt; dress voting-cum-consensus apparatus of an international 
&gt; standards group. 
&gt; 
&gt; Email Mechanics: Doug Skuce, the Canadian scholar who has developed
&gt; software tools to facilitate collaboration on concept definitions,
&gt; unfortunately unsubscribed from the group fairly early. If 
&gt; work on the KIF
&gt; artifact goes forward, someone might wish to contact him for 
&gt; suggestions
&gt; on how to guard an email editing process of several hundred 
&gt; core concepts
&gt; from becoming a bottomless pit.
&gt; 
&gt; Specific aims of the editing of the KIF artifact:  the 
&gt; correspondence to
&gt; date suggests that the main aim of future collaborative work 
&gt; will be to
&gt; purge the merged artifact of concepts of merely philosophical 
&gt; interest.  I
&gt; question the feasibility of this, if one begins with the Sowa 
&gt; ontology,
&gt; whose defining virtue is as a philosophically oriented 
&gt; construction formed
&gt; by applying a Peircean tripartite division to Whiteheadean categories.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Summary and prognosis: It now appears that there was not a sufficient
&gt; backlog of prior work brought into the effort to provide a realistic
&gt; prospect of a successful 'quick and dirty' approach, even in 
&gt; the limited
&gt; KIF subgroup.  Doing the job right under a voluntaristic 
&gt; model, as the ISO
&gt; data integration experience first cited by Matthew West in 
&gt; July suggests,
&gt; will require a considerable, multi-year commitment with 
&gt; frequent meetings
&gt; and working papers. Whether even this is sufficient for the 
&gt; SUO task is
&gt; questionable: on the basis of the previous four-year 
&gt; experience on upper
&gt; level ontologies, and indeed the de facto structure of this current
&gt; effort, I would respectfully suggest that a productive effort will
&gt; require, above and beyond the time of standing experts retained by
&gt; participating companies, specifically authorized funding over 
&gt; a multi-year
&gt; period bringing relevant intellectual skills from the more general
&gt; research/academic community to bear on the problem. That is to say,
&gt; working papers both from within and outside the normal 
&gt; standards community
&gt; must be commissioned as the topic requires. 
&gt; 
&gt; (To avoid any misunderstanding, let me say that I put forth this
&gt; suggestion disinterestedly and am not a candidate for funding 
&gt; or work in
&gt; this area.)
&gt; 
&gt; This has been a very useful and lively discussion group, and 
&gt; I, for one,
&gt; have learned from many of the comments. But all that is different from
&gt; producing a standard.  For a successful effort, a synergy between
&gt; institutional arrangements and software design is needed. 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Lee
&gt; 
&gt; Josiah Lee Auspitz
&gt; lee@textwise.com
&gt; 17 Chapel Street
&gt; Somerville, MA 02144
&gt; 617-628-6228
&gt; fax    -9441
&gt; 
&gt; Please send attachments pasted within text or in ASCII
&gt; Plain Text non-proprietary software.
&gt; 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00661.html">RE: SUO: RE: #s 3, 4 &amp; 5 Comments by Matthew West</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00659.html">SUO: RE: Explanation-XMP,NTH,4D,TIM,ACR,INV,DOI,CHG (et. al?)</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg00746.html">Re: SUO: RE: #6: Best Practices</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg00677.html">Re: SUO: RE: #6: Best Practices</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail77.html#00660"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd73.html#00660"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
