<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: ONT RE: trying to work -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Irfg, [nggurj D EWFW&#45;WFBEWS" <[nggurj.D.IrfgNWE.furyy.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Fri, 7 Dec 2001 04:20:23 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E42709FCF3B7@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg03494.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>ONT RE: trying to work</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg03491.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03495.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd20.html#03494">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg03495.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg03493.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail21.html#03494">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>ONT RE: trying to work</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<ul>
<li><em>To</em>: Jon Awbrey &lt;<A HREF="mailto:jawbrey@oakland.edu">jawbrey@oakland.edu</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Subject</em>: ONT RE: trying to work</li>
<li><em>From</em>: &quot;West, Matthew R SITI-ITPSIE&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@IS.shell.com</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Date</em>: Fri, 7 Dec 2001 10:19:33 +0100 </li>
<li><em>Cc</em>: &quot;Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;,       &quot;Ontology (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:ontology@ieee.org">ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</li>
<li><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org">owner-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org</A></li>
</ul>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Dear Jon,

See comments below.


Matthew West
Principal Consultant
Shell Information Technology International Limited
Shell Centre, London SE1 7NA, United Kingdom

Tel: +44 20 7934 4490 Other Tel: +44 7796 336538
Email: matthew.r.west@is.shell.com
Internet: <A  HREF="http://www.shell.com">http://www.shell.com</A>


&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Jon Awbrey [<A  HREF="mailto:jawbrey@oakland.edu">mailto:jawbrey@oakland.edu</A>]
&gt; Sent: 06 December 2001 16:22
&gt; To: West, Matthew R SITI-ITPSIE
&gt; Cc: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I; Ontology (E-mail)
&gt; Subject: Re: trying to work
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; ¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm having to deal off the top of my inbox now,
&gt; and so I may have missed previous discussion.
&gt; Also, not sure people are really capable
&gt; of hearing each other here, and I need
&gt; to continue with long-run increments
&gt; of progress, so I may appear a bit
&gt; scattered, or have to be sporadic.
&gt; Maybe things will look different
&gt; when I get my health back.
&gt; 
&gt; Interspersals infra.
&gt; 
&gt; Jon Awbrey
&gt; 
&gt; ¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤
&gt; 
&gt; JS = Jim Schoening
&gt; MW = Matthew West
&gt; 
&gt; MW: This sounds encouraging.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: See comments below.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: However, you have frequently suggested that the only sort 
&gt; of document
&gt;     that you find acceptable is something that purports to be 
&gt; a standard
&gt;     ontology, which doesn't leave those of us that think 
&gt; there are some
&gt;     pre-requisites anywhere much to go.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: Agreed.  My use of the term &quot;standards words&quot; is too narrow.
&gt;     In your other post you gave some examples of pre-standards words:
&gt; 
&gt; JS, quoting MW:
&gt; 
&gt;     | -- statement of requirements
&gt;     | -- standing documents for internal procedures
&gt;     | -- documents providing background theory/approach
&gt;     |    taken/proposed for the development of a standard.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: I agree these are all valid for documents, but not for 
&gt; extended threads.
&gt;     We must balance volume with how directly it contributes.  
&gt; Jon's postings
&gt;     are too remote for his volume.  He could post papers or 
&gt; introduce threads,
&gt;     but he should not continue the threads on this list.
&gt; 
&gt; The future always looks like it is more or less remote,
&gt; but it has the darndest funny way of sneaking up on us.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: I agree that Jon should prepare and post papers, rather 
&gt; than &quot;slow print&quot;
&gt;     them to the list.  I would prefer that from a reading 
&gt; point of view too.
&gt; 
&gt; There is an important aspect of the way that I am trying to contribute
&gt; my knowledge here that some people do not seem to get yet, 
&gt; although most
&gt; of my other off-list dialogue partners do -- folks, by the 
&gt; way, who are too
&gt; intimidated by the general tenor of the VIP's conduct on the 
&gt; list to dare the
&gt; asking of an innocent question on-list, much to our detriment 
&gt; and our common loss,

MW: That is sad.

&gt; I might add -- and this is that my whole present way of 
&gt; working is really dialogic.
&gt; I know, it may look like a monologue from the more disengaged 
&gt; points of view, but
&gt; it's not, and I get just enough interaction to tell when 
&gt; things have to be said
&gt; another way, or a thousand other ways, to get through.  

MW: Well then for me you are talking too fast. If you could
talk at half the speed, and pause occassionally when there
are other conversations, I would not find myself having to
ignore what you are saying from time to time.

&gt; I 
&gt; have recently had
&gt; the experience of spending ten years as a hermit in a cave 
&gt; working in near
&gt; total isolation on my dissertation, and I can tell you, I am not going
&gt; back to that, so get used to it.

MW: I fear you may be letting the pendulum swing too far in the
other direction.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: I see Jon's contributions as towards a future, rather 
&gt; than current document.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: If this were true, he could surely show 'some' early words.
&gt; 
&gt; Where is our list of standards words?
&gt; Frank Farance made the same complaint,
&gt; and I drafted an attempt in response,
&gt; but he never replied.  Frankly, it
&gt; just seems that we do not even have
&gt; the critical mass of expertise that
&gt; it takes to do this on a wide front,
&gt; no matter what certain folks might
&gt; think they are can do in a &quot;let's
&gt; pretend we know something about X&quot;
&gt; sort of way.  This is premature,
&gt; if not immature, and it will only
&gt; lead to bringing down severe and
&gt; damning criticism on our heads
&gt; from the first external review
&gt; by any actual expertise group.
&gt; I do not imagine myself to be
&gt; anything but a generalist here,
&gt; but I've been through the ringers
&gt; of enough specialized disciplines
&gt; to know this much.  It'll happen.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: He has shown lots of early words.  The whole Functional 
&gt; Logic thread is early words.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: OK, let's take this as an example.
&gt;     Let me ask some questions (keeping
&gt;     in mind I don't follow Jon's threads).
&gt; 
&gt; JS: He should have started out by proposing a draft of
&gt;     those words, or writing a paper and asking for review.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: Yes, I think this would have been better.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: I'm guessing he started the thread and did his ongoing 
&gt; exploration.
&gt; 
&gt; No, you guess wrong.
&gt; 
&gt; It is really silly to try and judge what you do not read.
&gt; Not that you're the only person who does this, of course.
&gt; And it is equally silly of me to try and argue with folks
&gt; who do not read what they judge.
&gt; 
&gt; MW: No. It looks like he had prepared a paper, and then
&gt;     broken it up into chunks which he sent to the list.
&gt;     I would prefer he sent 5-10 page chunks as PDF files
&gt;     with an executive summary e-mail.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: Did he wrap up his final version and
&gt;     present it for review and acceptance?
&gt; 
&gt; MW: No, but this is largely because you give him no place to 
&gt; do it since the
&gt;     only documents you have deemed appropriate are ontology 
&gt; standards documents.
&gt; 
&gt; Look, I have a set piece of work that bears on the aims of this group.
&gt; Many foundational portions of it were developed between 1967 and 1992.
&gt; The actual writing of this work into the form of a dissertation in the
&gt; field of Systems Engineering was done from 1992 to 2000, with ongoing
&gt; cosmetic changes up until the present time.  Over the last year in the
&gt; SUO WG I have changed my writing style, which I routinely do whenever
&gt; I write a lot, whether programming, prose, or poetry, and I have even
&gt; changed my research direction and focus a bit &quot;under the infuence&quot; of
&gt; SUO WG norms and goals.  Independently of these developments, one of
&gt; my advisors with considerable expertise in software reusability from
&gt; within a relational programming paradigm has developed an interest
&gt; in description logics and ontological applications.  So I could be
&gt; in this for the long haul.

MW: I'd be interested in hearing about any practical programmes you
and your colleagues are working on.
&gt; 
&gt; JS: Does it relate to either starter document?
&gt; 
&gt; MW: No, it precedes both of them.
&gt;     In my categories above it is
&gt;     background/theory/approach.
&gt; 
&gt; It relates to both of the starter documents to the 
&gt; differential extents
&gt; that both of them are still trying to represent their 
&gt; ontologies in KIF,
&gt; and KIF in its current form will fail as a representation 
&gt; language, both
&gt; on the grounds of its inherent pragmatic inadequacies, and on 
&gt; the grounds
&gt; that no one from the mathematical community, at the very 
&gt; least, would ever
&gt; try to do use it for any significant task.  

MW: I recall this now you mention it, but missed it in my summary of
what I think you are about below. I'd like to understand better why
you think KIF is inadequate. For example is it:

1. The notation is obscure and difficult for humans to read and 
   understand (but convenient for computers).

2. KIF is an ASCIIfication of First Order Logic, and FOL is inadequate
   to the task at hand (if so please explain why and what is needed).

3. KIF does not give adequate support for semiotics (or some other
   key theory).

MW: For myself, I don't like KIF, but I think I can live with it.

&gt; We would be far 
&gt; better off just
&gt; writing the standard out in plain math/logic monograph style. 

MW: I don't see how this helps interoperability between computer
systems.

&gt;  I am trying to
&gt; help you with that problem, by delivering a new language to 
&gt; you that solves the
&gt; fundamental problems in a fundamental way.  

MW: So is that the real purpose of your ASCCIIfied notation?

&gt; The basement is 
&gt; dug, 

MW: It being ...?

MW: You know it would be really handy to see the plans...

&gt; and the building
&gt; of the next story is admittedly incomplete, but the 
&gt; fundamental medium is planned
&gt; out right for what is probably the first time in history.  

MW: But (assuming this is so) at present only in your head.

&gt; (The advertizing group
&gt; has requested a #bold statement# for its copy.)

MW: Not the kind of summary of where you are going I had
in mind.
&gt; 
&gt; Bold statements make me weary -- I have will have to break here.
&gt; 
&gt; Jon Awbrey
&gt; 
&gt; JS: If so, did he formally propose it to them and explain how it fits?
&gt;     If not, please explain its contribution.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; MW: Jon's paper presents some foundations of logic which he thinks
&gt; &gt; are important to set out as the basis for what is to follow. This
&gt; &gt; is  important, because as you will already have seen, logic, and
&gt; &gt; some of the stuff immediately around it, is not as cut and dried
&gt; &gt; as we might like to think. There are choices to be made, and these
&gt; &gt; should be made explicitly. As you may conclude from his exchange
&gt; &gt; with CM, there is nothing earth shattering here.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; MW: Jon's main contention that this is all leading to is that the
&gt; &gt; &quot;big problem&quot; we really face is ontology development, rather than
&gt; &gt; a specific ontology, and that we need amongst other things to
&gt; &gt; specify and develop tools for this purpose. This would support an
&gt; &gt; &quot;enquiry&quot; process which would support the interaction between
&gt; &gt; ontology developers to help them resolve issues and move forwards.
&gt; &gt; He correctly identifies semiotics (for practical purpose the
&gt; &gt; relationships between terms and meanings) as a key element in this.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; MW: The main reason I am bothering to mediate here is that I have
&gt; &gt; enough experience from my base standards community to know that he
&gt; &gt; is right about these things. If we think we are going to create
&gt; &gt; anything significant by hand coding KIF files, we don't understand
&gt; &gt; the problem, but that is where we are right now.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; JS:  He is welcome to do his exploring on the Ontology 
&gt; list, but it
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; doesn't belong on the SUO list.  If we met in person, 
&gt; he wouldn't be
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; permitted to do about a quarter of the talking on these types
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; of topics.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; MW: This is why I suggested essentially renaming
&gt; &gt; &gt;     the ontology list to the development list.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; JS: Jon, would you agree to do your work on a 
&gt; 'development' list if we created done?
&gt; 
&gt; ¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤~~~~~~~~~¤
&gt; 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<ul><li><strong>Follow-Ups</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="03495" href="msg03495.html">ONT Re: trying to work</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> Jon Awbrey &lt;jawbrey@oakland.edu&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03495.html">ONT Re: trying to work</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg03493.html">Re: ONT FW: IFF Updates 2001-Dec-05, Comments Requested</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03491.html">ONT RE: trying to work</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg03495.html">ONT Re: trying to work</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail21.html#03494"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd20.html#03494"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
