<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote -->
<!--X-From-R13: Quevf Bnegevqtr <puevf_cnegevqtrNpfv.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Fri, 19 Jan 2001 08:49:42 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: NCBBIJEKHAFJOCJJCAGNIEJMDDAA.chris_partridge@csi.com -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: 780D366C8FDBD411859D0000F80813713C7264@mail5.monmouth.army.mil -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg00460.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:chris_partridge@csi.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg00452.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg00457.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd80.html#00460">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg00461.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg00459.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail81.html#00460">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: <A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>, <A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: Chris Partridge &lt;<A HREF="mailto:chris_partridge@csi.com">chris_partridge@csi.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Fri, 19 Jan 2001 14:17:23 +0100</LI>
<LI><em>Importance</em>: Normal</LI>
<LI><em>In-reply-to</em>: &lt;<A HREF="msg00452.html">780D366C8FDBD411859D0000F80813713C7264@mail5.monmouth.army.mil</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: Chris Partridge &lt;<A HREF="mailto:chris_partridge@csi.com">chris_partridge@csi.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Jim,

Thanks for given me a reply.

If you are asking me whether we should starting working on this document, my
answer is YES. If you ask me whether we should also start working on Matthew
West's document, my answer is YES. Presumably if you ask Robert Kent whether
we should start working on his document, the answer is YES (I do not have a
strong view as I have not had time to consider his document - but surely he
has a right, as a participant, to get it considered). I am not at all sure
why we should have to choose one now, and which one it should be.

As I said before, it seems sensible that we have some transparency.

If you are (understandably) keen to start tying the SUO down, one way of
rescuing the process might be to:

* Ask people to agree to the following process (i.e. ask in advance),
* Agree that the 'analysis' will proceed on the basis of documents submitted
in KIF - which are merged into a single document, which is then reviewed.
* Suggest a list of documents (or better still ask for suggestions) as
inputs to the process, including Niles'
* Set a deadline for people to submit other documents as candidate inputs,
* Invite people to take on the task of merging the inputs, but make the
merging as transparent as possible, so that people can see why, and
influence if they wish, any decisions.

Then we might have a base document.

BTW I do not think this is likely to lead to a coherent merged ontology -
maybe only a sort-of aligned ontology - but at least the process will feel
as if it has been managed more fairly.

I can appreciate that you feel we need to get on - and that just exchanging
emails or producing documents at random could go on forever. However, it
seems to me sensible management practice (rather than IEEE policy and
procedures) that once you have worked out where you want to go, to then make
some kind of plan/process to get there and ask people whether this is OK -
at least if you want to keep them on side.

The way things have been happening now makes me (and Pat - as you can see
from his comments) feel there is another agenda.

I think following some procedure like the above will not actually lose time
in the long run. Any delay in getting a working paper out now will be made
up by avoiding problematic discussions later on.

Regards,
Chris


-----Original Message-----
From: James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil
[<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>]
Sent: 19 January 2001 05:37
To: 'Chris Partridge'; Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)
Subject: RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote

Chris,

&gt;
&gt; Firstly I think it odd that the *only* two alternatives are
&gt; to either accept
&gt; the document as it stands or stop the project - which some people have
&gt; suggested.

I would define the first alaternative as:  YES means the group agrees to
start working on the document, not that they accept it as it stands, other
than as a starting point.


&gt;
&gt; Surely, if there are shortfalls we can work through these and
&gt; then submit
&gt; another document.

If you want the group to work on the shortfalls, you should vote YES.


&gt;
&gt; It also appeared to me that this document was not the result of a
&gt; collaboration.

Ian posted two prior versions of the Merged Ontology and did get some
feedback from a few people, but this was a far cry from the level of
collaboration that should take place in a group.  In fact, this lack of
collaboration was, I believe, was what prompted this for a vote, to get more
WG involvement.

But you may be refering to the issue of who contolled the changes.  Ian did,
not the group.  A key element of this vote is the transition of control of
this document from its originators to the group.


&gt; But overall, I think there is a basic management problem
&gt; here. I do not see
&gt; how you can expect a group to agree, let alone to spend much time
&gt; contributing, if there is a lack of clarity about the overall
&gt; process being
&gt; used and inadequate transparency in the process of compiling the group
&gt; document - including how individual contributions are dealt with.


IEEE provides very few Policies and Procedures for how a working group does
its work.  But this is probably good since all groups are unique.  This is
why we had to invent our own rules for who can vote.  I assure you we will
continuously run into situations where we don't have policies and procedures
or a process for dealing with something.  We can try to prepare ourselves,
but when not prepared, we'll have to do our best to invent ourselves as we
go.  If there's anyone motivated to head a committee on Policies and
Procedures, please step forward.  But it's very important that we not get
too hung up on procedures and lose sight of our main objective of developing
a useful document and building maximum consensus.  Also, the only vote that
really matters is the final ballot, and that is closely controlled by IEEE
and key to their maintaining ANSI accreditation.

Jim

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<ul><li><strong>References</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="00452" href="msg00452.html">RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> &quot;Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I&quot; &lt;James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00461.html">Re: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' for SUO WG</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00459.html">SUO: RE: RE: SUO Best Practices</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg00452.html">RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg00457.html">RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail81.html#00460"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd80.html#00460"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
