<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: Re: SUO: RE: SUO starter document &#45; A constructive proposal -->
<!--X-From-R13: Oqnz Brnfr <ncrnfrNxf.grxabjyrqtr.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Wed, 23 May 2001 23:54:10 &#45;0400 (EDT) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: 5.1.0.14.2.20010523225039.0249e870@ks.teknowledge.com -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: 5.1.0.14.2.20010523071533.02423c30@ks.teknowledge.com -->
<!--X-Reference: v0421011fb731a6bfcd21@[150.178.2.93] -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg02749.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>Re: SUO: RE: SUO starter document - A constructive proposal</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:apease@ks.teknowledge.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg02732.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg02705.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd35.html#02749">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg02750.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg02748.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail36.html#02749">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>Re: SUO: RE: SUO starter document - A constructive proposal</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: Nicola Guarino &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it">Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it</A>&gt;,       &quot;Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: Re: SUO: RE: SUO starter document - A constructive proposal</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: Adam Pease &lt;<A HREF="mailto:apease@ks.teknowledge.com">apease@ks.teknowledge.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Wed, 23 May 2001 22:51:35 -0700</LI>
<LI><em>In-Reply-To</em>: &lt;<A HREF="msg02732.html">v0421011fb731a6bfcd21@[150.178.2.93]</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>References</em>: &lt;<A HREF="msg02720.html">5.1.0.14.2.20010523071533.02423c30@ks.teknowledge.com</A>&gt;&lt;<A HREF="msg02720.html">5.1.0.14.2.20010523071533.02423c30@ks.teknowledge.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: Adam Pease &lt;<A HREF="mailto:apease@ks.teknowledge.com">apease@ks.teknowledge.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@majordomo.ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Nicola,
   Brief comments below:

At 08:21 PM 5/23/2001 +0200, Nicola Guarino wrote:

&gt;At 7:27 AM -0700 23/5/01, Adam Pease wrote:
&gt;&gt;Nicola,
&gt;&gt;  A few replies on your points below:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;       In the meanwhile, our own contribution to the SUO initiative
&gt;&gt;&gt;will necessarily be very limited, mainly because of the fact that
&gt;&gt;&gt;this group hasn't been able to implement a strict issue-based
&gt;&gt;&gt;discussion methodology, nor the "bookshelf of results" proposed in
&gt;&gt;&gt;the past by Mike Uschold and myself. To me, the inhability of
&gt;&gt;&gt;achieving this and the lack of control of out-of-focus discussions on
&gt;&gt;&gt;the list reveals a serious failure of this initiative. This is also
&gt;&gt;&gt;the reason of my abstension regarding the Chair elections.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;I'm surprised by this comment.  One of the first things I did was to 
&gt;&gt;compile precisely such a bookshelf of results at 
&gt;&gt;<A  HREF="http://suo.ieee.org/refs.html">http://suo.ieee.org/refs.html</A> .  For items that are relevant but are not 
&gt;&gt;themselves ontologies we created the page at 
&gt;&gt;<A  HREF="http://suo.ieee.org/links.html">http://suo.ieee.org/links.html</A> .  To document further anything that folks 
&gt;&gt;feel is relevant, the page at <A  HREF="http://suo.ieee.org/suopapers.htm">http://suo.ieee.org/suopapers.htm</A> was 
&gt;&gt;created and Jim made more than one invitation to people on the list to 
&gt;&gt;submit documents for posting at that location.
&gt;
&gt;This is not what I ment, nor what Mike Uschold proposed in his old message:
&gt;
&gt;At 10:59 AM -0800 15/3/01, Michael Uschold wrote:
&gt;&gt;I propose that a kind of SUO bookshelf be set up on our web pages. It would
&gt;&gt;contain detailed technical summaries similar to what Pat has produced. This
&gt;&gt;would be an
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;     EFFECTIVE VEHICLE FOR DISSEMINATION OF THE
&gt;&gt;     SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS WE HAVE MADE ON MANY FRONTS,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;which to date is virtually inaccessible, buried in the discussion archives.
&gt;&gt;One can think of this as real-time knowledge mining of our archives.
&gt;&gt;This would affect many folk:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;1. The world at large can see our progress to date.
&gt;&gt;2. Newcomers can much more easily get up to speed.
&gt;&gt;3. Regulars can skip the details and be assured of a good summary, in time.
&gt;&gt;4. All participants can be more efficient in the time they spend reading SUO,
&gt;&gt;   being able to keep up to speed on things on their own time, without fear
&gt;&gt;   of missing key information.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;Personally, I have on many occasions been on the verge of getting off 
&gt;&gt;this list because it is overwhelming. Yet, there are MANY things that are 
&gt;&gt;of great
&gt;&gt;interest and relevance to me, which I lack the time to follow and 
&gt;&gt;contribute in detail to.  A kind of SUO bookshelf, I hope would make 
&gt;&gt;everyone make more
&gt;&gt;efficient use of their SUO-time.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;I propose the following process/format for how this might happen.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;1. Discussion threads take place in the usual fashion.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;2. When things settle down a bit, and points of agreement are reached, these
&gt;&gt;should be summarized and fed back to the group. This would also include 
&gt;&gt;points
&gt;&gt;where people agree to disagree.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;3. When the main participants in the discussion reach agreement on the
&gt;&gt;summary, then it could be submitted to the overall group for placement
&gt;&gt;on the 'bookshelf'.   The assumption is that things DO go on the bookshelf.
&gt;&gt;I don't think we want a formal voting process for this. The idea of going to
&gt;&gt;the group at large, is to see if there are any further suggestions or
&gt;&gt;improvements to the document.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;4. We announce the existence of each new entry to the bookshelf to a SUO
&gt;&gt;interest group which is only intersted in the outcomes and timely 
&gt;&gt;announements,
&gt;&gt;rather than the day to day discussions.  We may already have such list, I do
&gt;&gt;not know whether the creation of SUO sub-lists some months ago, actually
&gt;&gt;worked.
&gt;
&gt;Douglas McDavid made some interesting proposals concerning ways to 
&gt;implement this issue-based system, but nothing happened. John Sowa 
&gt;proposed some (less fancy) tools, and nothing happened. John Awbrey is 
&gt;still flooding our mailbox, though...
&gt;
&gt;Well, I agree that these criticisms are not very constructive, but I also 
&gt;have a
&gt;CONSTRUCTIVE PROPOSAL:
&gt;
&gt;I talked today with Aldo Gangemi &lt;aldo@saussure.irmkant.rm.cnr.it&gt;, who 
&gt;volunteers on selecting the most relevant issues from our previous 
&gt;discussions, and maintaining an issue/sub-issue list along Mike's 
&gt;proposal. Format and tools can be discussed later (we can start with a 
&gt;manual list to be posted on the Web). The main aim is coming up to this 
&gt;issue list and checking agreements/disagreements on the various options 
&gt;that have been proposed in the past. This is a huge task, that would be 
&gt;simplified if everybody tries to help Aldo, maybe refraining from 
&gt;discussing other things for a while. I'll do my best to help Aldo, as we 
&gt;are working on a common project together anyway.

I think this is a great idea.  What was lacking before was a volunteer.


&gt;&gt;&gt;       A further reason of disappointment is the way the IEEE SUO
&gt;&gt;&gt;workshop has been managed. Still I don't know how many papers have
&gt;&gt;&gt;been submitted and selected. I suspect that ours was the only paper.
&gt;&gt;&gt;This could have been a useful opportunity to force people to condense
&gt;&gt;&gt;their proposals in papers, but apparently it didn't work.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;This is the first I've heard of this concern from you.  I have not 
&gt;&gt;participated in any conference where the participants were routinely 
&gt;&gt;informed of all the acceptances prior to the conference so I don't think 
&gt;&gt;this is standard practice.  On the other hand, it's certainly a 
&gt;&gt;reasonable request once made.  Yours was certainly not the only 
&gt;&gt;paper.  I'll suggest to the other members of the organizing committee 
&gt;&gt;that we publish the papers on the web.  Chris Menzel has already made 
&gt;&gt;this suggestion.
&gt;
&gt;I warmly suggested the same some time ago... More papers, less messages!

I agree.

Adam



&gt;---------------------------------
&gt;
&gt;Nicola Guarino
&gt;National Research Council       phone: +39 O49 8295751
&gt;LADSEB-CNR                      fax:   +39 O49 8295763
&gt;Corso Stati Uniti, 4            email: Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it
&gt;I-35127 Padova
&gt;Italy
&gt;
&gt;<A  HREF="http://www.ladseb.pd.cnr.it/infor/ontology/ontology.html">http://www.ladseb.pd.cnr.it/infor/ontology/ontology.html</A>
&gt;(***updated 21/5/2001 ***)

Adam Pease
Teknowledge
(650) 424-0500 x571

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<ul><li><strong>References</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="02720" href="msg02720.html">Re: SUO: RE: SUO starter document</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> Adam Pease &lt;apease@ks.teknowledge.com&gt;</li></ul></li>
<li><strong><a name="02732" href="msg02732.html">SUO: RE: SUO starter document - A constructive proposal</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> Nicola Guarino &lt;Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg02750.html">SUO: RE: RE: SUO starter document - A constructive proposal</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg02748.html">SUO: [Fwd: Parallel Tracks &amp; Ice-Breakers] &amp; Steam-Rollers</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg02732.html">SUO: RE: SUO starter document - A constructive proposal</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg02705.html">SUO: RE: Thanks for the votes</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail36.html#02749"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd35.html#02749"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
