<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote -->
<!--X-From-R13: Quevf Bnegevqtr <puevf_cnegevqtrNpfv.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Wed, 17 Jan 2001 22:00:08 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: NCBBIJEKHAFJOCJJCAGNCEILDDAA.chris_partridge@csi.com -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: 200101170054.QAA14527@puffin.rt.cs.boeing.com -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg00428.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:chris_partridge@csi.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg00406.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg00411.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd80.html#00428">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg00429.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg00427.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail82.html#00428">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: Michael Uschold &lt;<A HREF="mailto:mfu@redwood.rt.cs.boeing.com">mfu@redwood.rt.cs.boeing.com</A>&gt;,       <A HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>,       <A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: Chris Partridge &lt;<A HREF="mailto:chris_partridge@csi.com">chris_partridge@csi.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Wed, 17 Jan 2001 18:27:07 +0100</LI>
<LI><em>Importance</em>: Normal</LI>
<LI><em>In-reply-to</em>: &lt;<A HREF="msg00406.html">200101170054.QAA14527@puffin.rt.cs.boeing.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: Chris Partridge &lt;<A HREF="mailto:chris_partridge@csi.com">chris_partridge@csi.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Mike,

Firstly I think it odd that the *only* two alternatives are to either accept
the document as it stands or stop the project - which some people have
suggested.

Surely, if there are shortfalls we can work through these and then submit
another document.

My concerns about the documents fall into two categories - both expressed by
others.

Firstly, the overall coherence of the document - as Pat says:
It has no overall coherent ontological model; it represents a melange
of conflicting and incommensurate views on many basic ontological
issues.

It is perhaps unfortunate that the instrument for coherence was meant to be
John Sowa's Peircian categories, given people distaste for them. However, I
am not aware that the group went through any decision to use these (though
given the volume of mail I may well have missed it) This leads onto my
second point.

My second concern relates to the process - again as Pat said:
Jim, I often have the impression that you have a view of the activity
of this, er, group, which is completely at odds with reality. In what
sense has the 'group' been 'working' on Niles' document? As far as I
know, nobody has been working on it but Niles, and I imagine he might
well continue to do so whatever we vote, and good luck to him. I
never heard of it until he posted it. I hope he will continue to post
it here and we will have opportunities to comment on it. Do you
imagine that our voting can possibly have any effect on what anyone
actually DOES? (And where is the table, exactly?)

It also appeared to me that this document was not the result of a
collaboration.

This seems to me further confirmed by Matthew West's last email.
Of course I translated part of an earlier version of this into KIF in the
autumn in a paper entitled "Standard Upper Ontology: A Documentation Trial".
I just checked and was disappointed to find this hasn't made the SUO Web
site, but if you do not have it I can forward you a copy. Adam gutted the
document for the KIF content at some point and sent it to the SUO list.

I also recall a number of other inputs into the process - and I am unsure
about how much they are input into this document. Or indeed whether they
were considered as potential base documents.

In my experience if you are going to produce a document, and you want buy
in, then it helps if you explain the process to people - and you make the
process of compiling the document as transparent as possible. It also helps
if the compiler can be seen to be independent.

It also seems to me that we should try and be a bit clearer about the
methodology we are adopting for analysis. While I seem to remember that it
was agreed that the final document would be in KIF, I do not recall a
process being set up for working out what should go into KIF. For example, a
mechanism for determining how to ensure an 'overall coherent ontological
model'.

One way would be to identify the pertinent issues and try and get a quorum
on resolving them - hence, I thought Fred Chase's comments were sensible.
The group is in a productive challenge-response mode.
The Merged Ontology should be a working paper.
Formal votes should be taken, after discussion, on each
of the several ways it is claimed to be fundamentally flawed:

1) Requirement for a representation of time and change,
2) Requirement for a representation of  alternative courses of reality,
3) Disallowance of incommensurate views unrelated to one another,
4) .....

But overall, I think there is a basic management problem here. I do not see
how you can expect a group to agree, let alone to spend much time
contributing, if there is a lack of clarity about the overall process being
used and inadequate transparency in the process of compiling the group
document - including how individual contributions are dealt with.

So to answer Mike's point;
1) I think that the issue being raised here is more than the nature of the
document, but also the process by which documents are being raised. For my
suggestions for improvement, see above.
2) What I would want to see in the document is more of a feeling that there
is an overall coherent ontology. I am not sure that Mike's points about;
size, including/excluding anything specific or many/few axioms are what
worry me - or the other respondents.

Regards
Chris


-----Original Message-----
From: owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org
[<A  HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org]On">mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org]On</A> Behalf Of Michael Uschold
Sent: 17 January 2001 01:54
To: James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil;
standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org
Subject: Re: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote


For those voting NO, there have been many good points put forward, most of
which I agree with. However, I'm not sure that warrants a no vote.  It is
too
much to presume that the NO voters should provide an alternative. However,
it
would be helpful if they could characterize the sort of document that they
might vote YES to. E.g

* would it have to be a certain size?
* would it have to include/exclude anything specific?
* should it includ many/few axioms?

In short, we have to start from SOMEWHERE. We all applaud Ian's hard work in
proposing such a somewhere.  If its not the right place, can we have
guidance
as to what a better place might look like?

Also, keep in mind James's definition of what a NO vote means.
Are the no voters really reccommending that the group stop working on this
document?

FYI: I have not had time to look at the document yet.

Mike

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<ul><li><strong>References</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="00406" href="msg00406.html">Re: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> mfu@redwood.rt.cs.boeing.com (Michael Uschold)</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00429.html">Re: SUO: Composing Ontologies using morphisms and colimits</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00427.html">SUO: RE: Revised definition of Base Document</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg00406.html">Re: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg00411.html">RE: SUO: Clarification of a 'No' vote</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail82.html#00428"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd80.html#00428"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
