<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: RE: RE: Process for accepting "working papers" / "expert contribu tions" &#45;&#45; RE: RE: Violation of process -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Irfg, [nggurj [D EEW&#45;UDSO&#45;GY" <[nggurj.D.IrfgNvf.furyy.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Thu, 29 Mar 2001 06:48:36 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E42703AE17BE@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01946.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contri</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg01948.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01947.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd50.html#01946">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01947.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01945.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail52.html#01946">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contribu tions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contribu tions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Thu, 29 Mar 2001 13:31:05 +0200</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Dear Jim,

&gt; Philip,
&gt; 
&gt; 	Comments inserted:
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 1) Should we have any formally designated working documents 
&gt; at all at this
&gt; point? (yes, no, abstain)
&gt; 
&gt; JS: Any member can propose any document at any time.  If 
&gt; seconded, it must
&gt; be put to a vote.  The vote determines whether it is mature 
&gt; enough.  You
&gt; can't tell someone they can't propose a document because you 
&gt; don't think it
&gt; is mature enough.  All you can do is vote against it.  

MW: It depends what you mean by "Working Document" in recent correspondence
I have been using Working Document in the sense that John and Bob have taken
to be Expert Contribution.

You seem to be talking here about a document that has reached the stage
where
we are looking to agree to move it becoming a standard. In this sense I
agree
with your comments, but would observe that we have no documents that are 
currently in or near that state (IMHO).
&gt; 
&gt; 2) Should any documents be designated as preeminent over 
&gt; others at this
&gt; point? (yes, no, abstain)
&gt; 
&gt; JS: Listing them in the order of approval is probably the fairest. 

MW: Yes, using a numbering system would be useful for this. I also think we
need some basic classification system, such as Content, Methodology,
background/supporting documents.
&gt; 
&gt; 3) If we have working documents, what procedure should be followed to
&gt; designate something as a working document (Choose one):
&gt; 
&gt; A) A vote requiring a plurality of voting members in favor of 
&gt; the document?
&gt; 
&gt; Majority vote, with Abstains not counted, is what I've always 
&gt; seen.  SUO has
&gt; about 50 voting members, but only 24 cast votes in the straw poll. 
&gt; A plurality is too high a barrier.

MW: This is appropriate once we think we have something we want to
standardise.
&gt; 
&gt; B) Any voting member may submit a document and it is automatically
&gt; recognized as a working document?
&gt; 
&gt; JS: I see no way we can allow a single member to commit this 
&gt; WG to working
&gt; on a document.  The chair would need to monitor things like fairness,
&gt; openness, due process, copyright permissions, etc. A 
&gt; Technical Editor would
&gt; need to be appointed/selected and would need to get group 
&gt; approval before
&gt; making changes.   Even if we voted in favor of this, I expect 
&gt; IEEE would
&gt; overrule us.  Besides, doesn't the group want to have a say 
&gt; in what we are
&gt; working on, and what we are viewed as working on. I also 
&gt; think we wouldn't
&gt; want to be working on more than a handful of documents.  We 
&gt; can achieve this
&gt; same end by permitting anyone to submit any document, seek informal
&gt; participation, and voluntarily follow the rules of IEEE, but 
&gt; NOT have any
&gt; official status as a group project.  When ready, it could be 
&gt; proposed as a
&gt; group effort.

MW: Yes, this would be the Expert Contribution, which is the stage I think
we are at now.
&gt; 
&gt; C) TBD.
&gt; 
&gt; I would like to open the question of whether we should have 
&gt; such a vote for
&gt; discussion by all concerned. Maybe this is something that is 
&gt; already clearly
&gt; established in the procedures for IEEE working groups? If 
&gt; not, we may need
&gt; to establish it for SUO...
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; JS: I believe the ideas I'm suggesting are already covered 
&gt; and don't need a
&gt; vote.

MW: That would help. I think the issue here though is how toconduct 
ourselves until we think we have the basis for some standard(s).
&gt; 
&gt; Jim 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 


Regards  
      Matthew
===============================================================
Matthew West                    <A  HREF="http://www.matthew-west.org.uk/">http://www.matthew-west.org.uk/</A>

Principal Consultant                   Shell Visiting Professor
Operations &amp; Asset Management            The Keyworth Institute
Shell Services International            The University of Leeds
<A  HREF="http://www.shellservices.com/">http://www.shellservices.com/</A>  <A  HREF="http://www.keyworth.leeds.ac.uk/">http://www.keyworth.leeds.ac.uk/</A>

H3229, Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA, UK.
Tel: +44 207 934 4490 Fax: 7929 Mobile: +44 7796 336538
=============================================================== 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<ul><li><strong>Follow-Ups</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="01947" href="msg01947.html">SUO: RE: RE: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contribu tions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> &quot;Philip Jackson&quot; &lt;phil.jackson@computer.org&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01947.html">SUO: RE: RE: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contribu tions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01945.html">SUO: Re: Semes To Be The Truth</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01948.html">SUO: Semes To Be The Truth</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01947.html">SUO: RE: RE: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contribu tions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail52.html#01946"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd50.html#01946"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
