<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: RE: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd) -->
<!--X-From-R13: Wna @vyrf <vavyrfNgrxabjyrqtr.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Tue, 30 Jan 2001 13:49:15 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: EE25484266A64A47AE06CFC47C64232B18F987@helium.teknowledge.com -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg00572.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>RE: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd)</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:iniles@teknowledge.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg00569.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg00669.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd78.html#00572">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg00573.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg00571.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail79.html#00572">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>RE: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd)</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;'Nicola Guarino'&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it">Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it</A>&gt;,       <A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: RE: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd)</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: Ian Niles &lt;<A HREF="mailto:iniles@teknowledge.com">iniles@teknowledge.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Tue, 30 Jan 2001 10:21:42 -0800</LI>
<LI><em>Cc</em>: Enrico Motta &lt;<A HREF="mailto:e.motta@open.ac.uk">e.motta@open.ac.uk</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: Ian Niles &lt;<A HREF="mailto:iniles@teknowledge.com">iniles@teknowledge.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Hi Nicola,

	Please see my two comments below.

-Ian

&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Nicola Guarino [<A  HREF="mailto:Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it">mailto:Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it</A>]
&gt; Sent: Tuesday, January 30, 2001 8:01 AM
&gt; To: standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org
&gt; Cc: Enrico Motta
&gt; Subject: Re: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd)
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; I agree on many of the points addressed by Lee Auspitz. Before 
&gt; commenting these points in more detail, let me clarify that I agree 
&gt; with most of the criticisms expressed by people who have voted "NO", 
&gt; but I vote "ABSTAIN" just to avoid being accused of disregarding what 
&gt; Ian Niles did.
&gt; 
&gt; I believe that the discussion about the content of Ian Niles' 
&gt; document that is currently going on is a USEFUL thing, as well as any 
&gt; content-related discussion going on this list. This discussion can go 
&gt; on (and contribute to some collective progress) INDEPENDENTLY of any 
&gt; formal vote about the document as a whole (indeed, it seems it is 
&gt; going on in a constructive way, and the voting process hasn't ended 
&gt; yet).
&gt; 
&gt; As I personally clarified with Jim, I don't think that a vote is 
&gt; necessary to recognize a working  document as a relevant input for 
&gt; future work, nor to get more people working on it. Rather, especially 
&gt; in this early phase, a vote would be more useful to verify the 
&gt; consensus about SPECIFIC ISSUES, like an
&gt; ontological distinction or a terminological choice. As somebody has
&gt; underlined, votes on documents as a whole are more appropriate
&gt; towards the end of the standardization process.
&gt; 
&gt; Let's go back to Lee's comments now:
&gt; 
&gt; At 12:29 PM -0500 28/1/01, Josiah Lee Auspitz wrote:
&gt; &gt;Timing and propriety of vote:  I believe a vote of some kind is long
&gt; &gt;overdue as a reality check on whether the statement of scope 
&gt; and purpose
&gt; &gt;was adequately debugged prior to submission (no vote was 
&gt; taken to assure
&gt; &gt;that consensus had in fact been achieved, and no 
&gt; consideration was given
&gt; &gt;prior to the submission of whether the merger approach drew on 'best
&gt; &gt;practices'). But I do not believe it is fair or appropriate 
&gt; to vote on a
&gt; &gt;preliminary draft of the KIF subgroup as if it were the 
&gt; unique focus of
&gt; &gt;the effort.  The whole point of such a subgroup, I thought, 
&gt; was to test
&gt; &gt;out whether a quick overlap-and-winnow approach (my term) to 
&gt; merger is
&gt; &gt;possible with the simplifying limitation of being restricted 
&gt; to KIF and
&gt; &gt;drawing on disparate public domain upper level materials. 
&gt; This is only one
&gt; &gt;approach to the problem, and pushing it forward can be 
&gt; encouraged as a way
&gt; &gt;of stimulating longer term work without elevating it to 
&gt; premature voting.
&gt; &gt;I take it that some other timetable is pushing us forward on 
&gt; voting by
&gt; &gt;February 1, 2001.
&gt; 
&gt; I agree.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;View of the draft:  This strikes me as a conscientious and 
&gt; intelligent
&gt; &gt;employment of an overlap-and-winnow method to develop 
&gt; central concepts
&gt; &gt;using public domain materials.  There is no exact science in 
&gt; this, but
&gt; &gt;good judgment disciplined by clarity about final 
&gt; applications go a long
&gt; &gt;way.  On the basis of work experience quite independent of 
&gt; this effort,
&gt; &gt;Ian Niles would be a very strong choice to make a useful 
&gt; contribution in
&gt; &gt;this field if there were a clearer, shared sense of the domain and
&gt; &gt;purposes to be served initially by the completed artifact.
&gt; 
&gt; I agree.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;Best Practices: I am, however, disappointed that this early 
&gt; draft does not
&gt; &gt;appear to make use of or reference to previous public domain 
&gt; practices in
&gt; &gt;the field: the Cyc-Penman upper level alignment, the upper level
&gt; &gt;EuroWordNet formed from common terms appearing in several European
&gt; &gt;language versions of WordNet, perhaps the Cyc-Wordnet 
&gt; alignment reported
&gt; &gt;to this list by a Bulgarian source (which I, too, have not 
&gt; yet checked
&gt; &gt;out), and the several attempts to generate upper level 
&gt; ontologies that
&gt; &gt;might be used to search a variety of legacy databases within 
&gt; a specific
&gt; &gt;domain. I get no sense of how this KIF effort is situated in an
&gt; &gt;increasingly competitive field, or indeed, that it is yet adequately
&gt; &gt;grounded within the field.
&gt; 
&gt; I agree VERY MUCH. I believe we should give more importance to 
&gt; previous work in the area of lexical resources. The reference 
&gt; ontology we are developing in framework of the IKF project will have 
&gt; links to WordNet/EuroWordNet since its first release. Also the 
&gt; results of the SIMPLE project 
&gt; (<A  HREF="http://www.ub.es/gilcub/SIMPLE/simple.html">http://www.ub.es/gilcub/SIMPLE/simple.html</A>) are very relevant us. 
&gt; [Incidentally, I have some reservations about the Cyc-Penman 
&gt; alignement, which resulted from a largely "syntactic" methodology and 
&gt; was not properly validated from the semantic point of view]

Thanks for the pointer to the SIMPLE project.  As time permits, I will try
to mine it and other lexical resources (including Wordnet/EuroWordNet) for
concepts and relations that we might want to include in the merged ontology.
The reason that I didn't refer to these resources in the first two versions
of the ontology is that I wanted a philosophically rigorous conceptual
skeleton upon which we could hang more specific content, and one limitation
of linguistically motivated ontologies is that they often contain concepts
that are not precisly defined or that violate non-circularity constraints.
However, I for one think that these ontologies will be essential for
fleshing out the skeleton that we are in the process of refining. 

&gt; 
&gt; &gt;Methodology/Reference Object:  I brought this distinction 
&gt; forward several
&gt; &gt;times before to no avail, and others have put it in other 
&gt; ways without
&gt; &gt;much traction, but let me try one last time: a crucial conceptual
&gt; &gt;watershed in this area (and one that was the agreed 'best 
&gt; practice' and
&gt; &gt;building block of the previous ad hoc ontology effort)  is 
&gt; to distinguish
&gt; &gt;the underlying methods, architecture, specifications and 
&gt; algorithms of the
&gt; &gt;structure of what would be an acceptable upper level from a given
&gt; &gt;instantiation determined by specific design and semantic 
&gt; choices.  This
&gt; &gt;latter artifact is properly seen as a 'reference object' 
&gt; embodying one
&gt; &gt;version of an underlying body of standards.  Several people 
&gt; on this list
&gt; &gt;have further expanded on this point by pointing to the possibility of
&gt; &gt;growing and self-maintaining ontological structures 
&gt; permitting a variety
&gt; &gt;of users and uses.  These draw on methods that go well beyond the
&gt; &gt;merge-and-winnow approach, and cannot be adeuqately covered merely by
&gt; &gt;making explicit the 'syntactic' choices and axioms of the reference
&gt; &gt;object.
&gt; 
&gt; I agree.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;Maintenance: Are there in fact as many as five members of 
&gt; this group, not
&gt; &gt;under a short-term contract to participate, prepared to give 
&gt; Ian's content
&gt; &gt;choices continuing attention and review *and* to maintain the content
&gt; &gt;choices for 4-5 years, answering queries and making 
&gt; emendations?  If so,
&gt; &gt;let them continue this in the KIF subgroup and develop a 
&gt; reference object
&gt; &gt;so carefully hedged and specified as to be ready for a prime 
&gt; time vote.
&gt; 
&gt; Even without this resources, it makes sense for the people who have 
&gt; started this document to keep working on it, interacting with the 
&gt; rest of the group.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;Email Mechanics: Doug Skuce, the Canadian scholar who has developed
&gt; &gt;software tools to facilitate collaboration on concept definitions,
&gt; &gt;unfortunately unsubscribed from the group fairly early. If 
&gt; work on the KIF
&gt; &gt;artifact goes forward, someone might wish to contact him for 
&gt; suggestions
&gt; &gt;on how to guard an email editing process of several hundred 
&gt; core concepts
&gt; &gt;from becoming a bottomless pit.
&gt; 
&gt; I agree. We definitely need sophisticated groupware techniques. 
&gt; Besides Doug, Enrico Motta is also working on tools for critiquing 
&gt; and discussing documents which may be of help for our project. See 
&gt; <A  HREF="http://d3e.open.ac.uk/">http://d3e.open.ac.uk/</A>.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;Specific aims of the editing of the KIF artifact:  the 
&gt; correspondence to
&gt; &gt;date suggests that the main aim of future collaborative work 
&gt; will be to
&gt; &gt;purge the merged artifact of concepts of merely 
&gt; philosophical interest.  I
&gt; &gt;question the feasibility of this, if one begins with the 
&gt; Sowa ontology,
&gt; &gt;whose defining virtue is as a philosophically oriented 
&gt; construction formed
&gt; &gt;by applying a Peircean tripartite division to Whiteheadean 
&gt; categories.
&gt; 
&gt; Indeed, Sowa's top level is something we should discuss and 
&gt; approve/modify/reject BEFORE voting on an integration proposal based 
&gt; on it.

If you have some objections to Sowa's top level or to the simplification of
it that I circulated yesterday, perhaps you could state those objections and
we could work from there.

&gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;Summary and prognosis: It now appears that there was not a sufficient
&gt; &gt;backlog of prior work brought into the effort to provide a realistic
&gt; &gt;prospect of a successful 'quick and dirty' approach, even in 
&gt; the limited
&gt; &gt;KIF subgroup.  Doing the job right under a voluntaristic 
&gt; model, as the ISO
&gt; &gt;data integration experience first cited by Matthew West in 
&gt; July suggests,
&gt; &gt;will require a considerable, multi-year commitment with 
&gt; frequent meetings
&gt; &gt;and working papers. Whether even this is sufficient for the 
&gt; SUO task is
&gt; &gt;questionable: on the basis of the previous four-year 
&gt; experience on upper
&gt; &gt;level ontologies, and indeed the de facto structure of this current
&gt; &gt;effort, I would respectfully suggest that a productive effort will
&gt; &gt;require, above and beyond the time of standing experts retained by
&gt; &gt;participating companies, specifically authorized funding 
&gt; over a multi-year
&gt; &gt;period bringing relevant intellectual skills from the more general
&gt; &gt;research/academic community to bear on the problem. That is to say,
&gt; &gt;working papers both from within and outside the normal 
&gt; standards community
&gt; &gt;must be commissioned as the topic requires.
&gt; 
&gt; I agree. My institute has some (modest) funding for this. In the 
&gt; framework of the IKF project, we may consider contributing to the 
&gt; expenses of a limited group of people working on basic ontological 
&gt; distinctions for a few days.
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; 
&gt; -- Nicola
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;   ---------------------------------
&gt; 
&gt; Nicola Guarino
&gt; National Research Council	phone: +39 O49 8295751
&gt; LADSEB-CNR		fax:   +39 O49 8295763
&gt; Corso Stati Uniti, 4		email: Nicola.Guarino@ladseb.pd.cnr.it
&gt; I-35127 Padova
&gt; Italy
&gt; 
&gt; <A  HREF="http://www.ladseb.pd.cnr.it/infor/ontology/ontology.html">http://www.ladseb.pd.cnr.it/infor/ontology/ontology.html</A>
&gt; (***updated 10/1/2001 ***)
&gt; 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00573.html">SUO: TIM</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00571.html">RE: SUO: Proposed Changes to Merged Ontology</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg00569.html">Re: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd)</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg00669.html">RE: SUO: Vote on Merged Ontology as a 'Base Document' (fwd)</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail79.html#00572"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd78.html#00572"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
