<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Vbea, Uenunz" <tenunz.ubeaNnvuj.tbi.nh> -->
<!--X-Date: Thu, 15 Feb 2001 21:01:43 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: EC943C5D0768D311AF8A00805F85B83EF83054@master.aihw.gov.au -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01074.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg01068.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01066.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd68.html#01074">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01075.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01073.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail69.html#01074">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;'West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK'&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;,       &quot;'Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)'&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote </LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;Horn, Graham&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Fri, 16 Feb 2001 12:41:47 +1100</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: &quot;Horn, Graham&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Matthew, 
	.	Might I suggest version 0.001, rather than s.t. like
"initial ontology". This wouldn't constrain versioning so much. 



Cheers   				Graham Horn
National Data Standards Unit
Australian Institute of Health and Welfare 
================================================
Phone:      	02.6244.1094  
Fax:          	02.6244.1199  
E­mail:    	Graham.Horn@aihw.gov.au &lt;<A  HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;


-----Original Message-----
From:	West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK [<A  HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>]
Sent:	Thursday, February 15, 2001 8:22 PM
To:	'Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)'
Subject:	SUO: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote 


Dear James,

What you propose as a way forward is acceptable to me. Three comments:

1. I suggest the merged ontology is labelled as "Work in Progress".

2. I would suggest a loose and informal interpretation of the control on the
document.

3. From the discussion around the document, it is not clear to me that a
"merged ontology" is an appropriate final outcome. So a name like "initial
ontology", or some other name based on the metaphysical tradition(s) it is
drawn from might be more appropriate.

Regards  
      Matthew
============================================
Matthew West
Operations &amp; Asset Management
Shell Services International
H3229, Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA, UK.
Tel: +44 207 934 4490 Fax: 7929 
Mobile: +44 7796 336538
E-mail: Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com
<A  HREF="http://www.shellservices.com/">http://www.shellservices.com/</A>
============================================

&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>]
&gt; Sent: 14 February 2001 02:53
&gt; To: 'Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)'
&gt; Subject: SUO: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; SUO,
&gt; 
&gt; 	Final vote results on Merged Ontology (see ballot 
&gt; question below)
&gt; are: 
&gt; 
&gt; 	YES = 11
&gt; 	NO  = 9
&gt; 	ABSTAIN = 4 
&gt; 
&gt; 	YES votes were from: John Thompson, Adam Pease, John 
&gt; Velman, Graham
&gt; Horn, Roberto Bordogna, Ian Niles, Douglas McDavid, John 
&gt; Sowa, Fredrick
&gt; Chase, Frank Farance, Jay Halcomb.
&gt; 
&gt; 	NO votes were from: Matthew West, Chris Partridge, Robert Kent,
&gt; Stefano Borgo, John Dickert, Francis McCabe, Lee Auspitz, Bob 
&gt; Spillers,
&gt; Chris Angus. 
&gt; 
&gt; 	ABSTAINs were from: Pat Hayes, Michael Uschold, Sofia 
&gt; Pinto, Nicola
&gt; Guarino
&gt; 
&gt; 	Please correct me if I have tabulated your vote incorrectly.
&gt; 
&gt; Observations: 
&gt; 
&gt; 1. The IEEE default voting rule within a working group is a 
&gt; simple majority
&gt; of YES vs. NO votes, with ABSTAINs not included in 
&gt; determining majority.  
&gt; 
&gt; 2. This vote was presented as an unofficial straw poll, because we are
&gt; currently establishing the list of official voters.
&gt; 
&gt; 3. We previously established considerable opposition to 
&gt; calling the Merged
&gt; Ontology a "Base Document," and have since modified the 
&gt; question to remove
&gt; this label.  
&gt; 
&gt; 4. All comments that were directly related to the question 
&gt; have been posted,
&gt; and received much discussion.  Some votes did change as a result of
&gt; discussion and are reflected in the above results.  Those 
&gt; comments that
&gt; related to improving the document were not to be addressed 
&gt; until and unless
&gt; the group decided to work on this document.  This is the way ballot
&gt; resolution works.  We try to improve documents and build consensus by
&gt; resolving comments.
&gt; 
&gt; 5. This is a very early-on vote in the development of the 
&gt; proposed document.
&gt; It will eventually need to gain 75% approval from the final 
&gt; balloting group.
&gt; 
&gt; Proposed Conclusions:
&gt; 
&gt; 1. A simple majority voted YES to the question (copy below), 
&gt; therefore, this
&gt; vote has passed, but by a recognized thin margin. 
&gt; 
&gt; 2. Aside from the thin approval margin, the group appears to 
&gt; have rather
&gt; strong consensus that work should proceed on the Merged 
&gt; Ontology.  This
&gt; comes even from many of those who voted NO, who did so for 
&gt; the reasons in
&gt; the posted comments. 
&gt; 
&gt; Proposed Actions resulting from above:
&gt; 
&gt; Step 1: Post link to Merged Ontology on SUO web site at 
&gt; <A  HREF="http://suo.ieee.org">http://suo.ieee.org</A>.
&gt; as follows: 
&gt; 
&gt; 	Documents under development by this working group:
&gt; 1. Merged Ontology &lt;link address&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; Step 2: Select a Technical Editor for Merged Ontology document, to be
&gt; accomplished by issuing a 'Call for volunteers' followed by 
&gt; an open and fair
&gt; selection process.
&gt; 
&gt; Step 3: Place Merged Ontology Document under control of SUO 
&gt; WG, requiring
&gt; Technical Editor to gain approval from group before making 
&gt; changes.  This
&gt; would be mostly via an informal consensus process, but would 
&gt; also include
&gt; formal votes (with comment resolution) every 3-6 months.  
&gt; 
&gt; Step 4: Technical Editor will resolve all comments from the 
&gt; previous vote
&gt; that dealt with improvements to Merged Ontology.  Additional 
&gt; comments will
&gt; also be solicited.
&gt; 
&gt; 	Are there any objections to these Observations, Proposed
&gt; Conclusions, or Proposed Actions?
&gt; 
&gt; Jim Schoening
&gt; Chair, SUO WG
&gt; 
&gt; ===============================
&gt; The completed call for vote follows:
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
&gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>]
&gt; Sent: Thursday, January 18, 2001 7:03 AM
&gt; To: Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)
&gt; Subject: SUO: Revised Call for Vote on Merged Ontology
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; SUO Participants,
&gt; 
&gt; 1. Since the prior vote had a variety of problems, it is 
&gt; amended as follows
&gt; to focus on the key question.  
&gt; 
&gt; 2. If you have already cast a vote (and received 
&gt; acknowledgement) you don't
&gt; need to vote again, unless you wish to change your vote or comments.
&gt; However, this is an open list and all are welcome to post or 
&gt; repost their
&gt; opinions.
&gt; 
&gt; 3. This message is a call for a vote on the question:
&gt; 
&gt; 	Should the IEEE Standard Upper Ontology Working Group
&gt; 	commence work on the Merged Ontology as posted by 
&gt; 	Ian Niles with the intent of attempting to develop 
&gt; 	it into a final standards document?
&gt; 
&gt; 4. Background:  If this vote passes, this document will 
&gt; change from being
&gt; the work (and under the control) of a group of individuals to 
&gt; being the work
&gt; (and under the control) of the SUO WG.  A Technical Editor 
&gt; will need to be
&gt; appointed or elected, who will need group approval before 
&gt; making changes.
&gt; This does not require frequent formal votes for every change. A better
&gt; approach for daily or weekly updates is to develop consensus 
&gt; by resolving
&gt; objections, as we did when revising the Scope and Purpose.  
&gt; In other words,
&gt; the editor posts a suggested change and asks for any 
&gt; objections. Items that
&gt; do not have clear consensus would be accumulated.  Then, 
&gt; every 3-6 months
&gt; the group could have a formal vote on what would be the next 'Working
&gt; Draft.' Comments would be submitted and resolved before 
&gt; approval as the next
&gt; Working Draft.
&gt; 
&gt; 5. The purpose of this vote is to determine the level of 
&gt; consensus we have
&gt; for focusing work on this document.  In other words, we need 
&gt; to decide if we
&gt; are going to go down this path or not.  A working group may 
&gt; decide to work
&gt; on more than one document, so anyone else is free to submit one.
&gt; 
&gt; 6. The primary purpose of this vote is NOT to propose 
&gt; improvements to the
&gt; document, unless they are major enough for you to vote 
&gt; against focusing work
&gt; on this document.  However, such general improvement comments 
&gt; are welcome
&gt; and will be resolved (but not unless and until the vote 
&gt; passes.  There would
&gt; be no sense in resolving comments if the group does not want 
&gt; to proceed with
&gt; this document.).
&gt; 
&gt; 7. Since we are still in the process of establishing official 
&gt; voting rights,
&gt; I suggest we first conduct this as an unofficial straw poll, such that
&gt; anyone can cast a vote.  After resolving all comments, if 
&gt; consensus is not
&gt; clear, we will have the option of conducting a formal vote 
&gt; (once voting
&gt; rights are established).
&gt; 
&gt; 8. Your options for voting are YES (comments optional), NO (comments
&gt; required), or ABSTAIN (comments optional).
&gt; 
&gt; 9. You may send your votes either to me or to this reflector.
&gt; 
&gt; 10. Please vote by Feb 1, 2001.
&gt; 
&gt; Jim Schoening
&gt; Chair, SUO WG
&gt; 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01075.html">Re: SUO: Echos</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01073.html">Re: SUO: Echos</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01068.html">SUO: RE: RE: Proposed Conclusions and Actions from Vote</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01066.html">SUO: RE: RE: RE: RE: RE: Collections - Aggregation or Set</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail69.html#01074"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd68.html#01074"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
