<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: Violation of process -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Vbea, Uenunz" <tenunz.ubeaNnvuj.tbi.nh> -->
<!--X-Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2001 02:37:20 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: BA19E8144C20D51185030000E2382D1E1D2DED@master.aihw.gov.au -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01891.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: Violation of process</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg01885.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01896.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd51.html#01891">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01892.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01890.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail53.html#01891">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: Violation of process</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;'Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I'&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:IMCEAMAILTO-James%2B2ESchoening%2B40mail1%2B2Emonmouth%2B2Earmy%2B2Emil@aihw.gov.au">IMCEAMAILTO-James+2ESchoening+40mail1+2Emonmouth+2Earmy+2Emil@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: Violation of process</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;Horn, Graham&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Tue, 27 Mar 2001 17:11:50 +1000</LI>
<LI><em>Cc</em>: &quot;Standard-Upper-Ontology (E-mail)&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;,       &quot;'Robert Grayson Spillers'&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">skydog@pacbell.net</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: &quot;Horn, Graham&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Jim, 
	.	I would like to suggest that the concern and problem is that
of needing the group to select documents at such an early stage. Are you
suggesting that we vote on every document for posting under the "Document
being worked on by this Working Group."  list? If so, why? Do you think we
can in any meaningful way evaluate the soundness of any proposals now?  

	.	I don't think we can make valid judgements of this nature,
yet. Hence I suggest group "approval" of documents is premature now. It
follows I don't think we should be voting on candidate documents yet, so
they shouldn't be separated out into the "Document being worked on by this
Working Group." and "Papers and other documented submitted by members."
headings. 

	.	Whereas I was previously happy to accept the current
situation in view of the preceding events, I have never felt it was a good
situation. Having looked at the site I now feel the "Document being worked
on by this Working Group."  category gives excessive prominence to any
document at this stage. 

	.	Furthermore, I feel it gives outsiders false impressions of
both our achievement, and the status of any document  under that heading.  

	.	We have seen the divisiveness the last ballot caused. I
suggest any more ballots of candidate ontologies will also be harmful for
the time being. 

	.	I think we need to either change the heading, or remove any
entries from it. If necessary, perhaps we should both preface the heading
with "Candidate"; and replace the words "worked on" with "considered,
commented on and contributed to". 

	.	Either that, or no documents should be posted under the
"Document being worked on by this Working Group." heading until a reasonably
mature assessment is feasible, which is certainly not yet. 



Cheers   				Graham Horn
National Data Standards Unit
Australian Institute of Health and Welfare 
================================================
Phone:      	+61.2.6244.1094  
Fax:          	+61.2.6244.1199  
E­mail:    	Graham.Horn@aihw.gov.au &lt;<A  HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;



-----Original Message-----
From: Schoening, James R CECOM DCSC4I
[<A  HREF="mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil">mailto:James.Schoening@mail1.monmouth.army.mil</A>]
Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2001 2:38 PM
To: 'Standard-Upper-Ontology '
Cc: Robert Grayson Spillers
Subject: SUO: RE: Violation of process

Bob,
Currently we have two classes of documents on the SUO web site at
<A  HREF="http://suo.ieee.org">http://suo.ieee.org</A> &lt;<A  HREF="http://suo.ieee.org/">http://suo.ieee.org/</A>&gt; :
1. Documents being worked on by this working group(Merged Ontology is only
one listed)
2. Papers and other documented submitted by members. 
It sounds like the second category is what you are referring to in your
motion, yet you use the words: "Document being worked on by this Working
Group." 
I see no way a WG can be "working on" a document without group approval to
do so. What if it's out of scope, or if all but one person doesn't want the
group to spend any time on it? What if it violates a copyright or its
contributors don't follow IEEE rules of fairness, openness, or due process? 
It's fine for people to submit documents and unofficially have members work
on them (that's how documents get started), but we need to be clear whether
a document is under WG control or not, i.e. whether the WG is working on the
document or whether it's just the work of some individuals. There's a
significant difference.
So, if you are proposing that anyone may submit a document and individuals
can unofficially work on it, we permit and encourage that now. If you are
proposing that a single individual can commit the WG to work on a document,
I see major problems as stated above.
-------------------
The Merged Ontology could be get company at any time. Documents from Matthew
West, Nicola Guarino, Robert Kent, and Philip Jackson (Glossary) have all
been possible candidates. I have discussed this option with each of these
individuals (to bring their documents into the group, and under group
control). 
----------------------
Regarding the concern with the supposed 'status' of the Merged Ontology, on
a scale of 0-10, its status is probably no more than a 1. It will need to
pass multiple votes as a Working Draft, then a vote by this WG to forward
for Sponsor Ballot, and then pass (by 75%) the Sponsor Ballot. 
Jim Schoening
-----Original Message-----
From: Robert Grayson Spillers [<A  HREF="mailto:skydog@pacbell.net">mailto:skydog@pacbell.net</A>]
Sent: Monday, March 26, 2001 4:26 PM
To: John F. Sowa; Jon Awbrey; Chris Partridge; Horn, Graham
Cc: 'Standard-Upper-Ontology '
Subject: SUO: Violation of process
Jon. John, Chris, Graham, 
Thank you for your comments. I have drafted a motion that I will eventually
offer for general consent (unanimous consent). I think it is what most
people thought there were approving in the previous "straw vote". 
I invite any comments or suggestions. I would very much like this to pass
without objection. However, a single objection defeats a motion for general
consent. If it cannot be accepted by general consent, I will offer it as a
motion requiring a vote. 
Bob 

Motion: Request for adoption by general (unanimous) consent. 
Resolved: Any member of the IEEE SUO Working Group may post a document to
the SUO web page as a "Document being worked on by this Working Group." The
member who posts a document is presumptively the technical editor of the
document and by posting agrees to perform this role or alternatively name
another member who agrees to perform the role of technical editor. No vote
will be required to post a document or name an editor. 
The statement "All documents posted are deemed to have equal status and no
document has any preferred position over any other document." will precede
the list of documents.

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01892.html">RE: SUO: RE: KIF syntax and semantics and a basic ontology</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01890.html">RE: SUO: RE: KIF syntax and semantics and a basic ontology</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01885.html">SUO: RE: Violation of process</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01896.html">SUO: RE: Violation of process</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail53.html#01891"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd51.html#01891"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
